Supporters of President TrumpDonald TrumpBlack voters are fleeing Biden in droves. Here's why Biden's Super Bowl prediction: 'Loves' Bengals' quarterback, but Rams 'hard to beat' GOP Senate candidate to run 'Let's go Brandon' ad during Super Bowl MORE and counterprotesters clashed Saturday night after what was a mostly peaceful day of demonstrations in support of Trump and in protest of the election results. One person was stabbed and more than 20 others arrested, according to local reports.Violent clashes between Trump supporters and counterprotesters that were caught on tape by The Washington Post showed members from both sides lunging at one another. Objects can be seen being thrown through the air, and people can be seen punching one another. Video caught by NBC4 reporter Shomari Stone shows several encounters between the two sides, including a Trump supporter being pushed after bumping up against a group of counterprotesters while holding a flag.Another clip in Stone's video shows demonstrators arguing while a police officer stands between them. Fights and Clashes Erupt on DC Streets After Pro-Trump Demonstrations: @nbcwashington. @msnbc https://t.co/yjC9GlzzmV pic.twitter.com/MGavooFetH— Shomari Stone (@shomaristone) November 15, 2020Separate footage from Stone shows counterprotesters clashing with the president's supporters outside the White House when someone set off fireworks. The same video shows officers in masks pushing back a crowd trying to confront Trump supporters. A group of people also gathered near Freedom Plaza chanting, "USA," according to footage from WUSA9 reporter Kolbie Satterfield. A report from the media outlet noted that flash-bangs and fireworks went off in the area as well. — Kolbie Satterfield (@KolbieReports) November 15, 2020Amid the tumult, Washington, D.C., police made 20 arrests Saturday, and two officers were injured, according to Satterfield. UPDATE: 20 arrests were made and two officers were injured in today’s #MAGAMillionMarch protests, according to an official with the DC Mayor’s office @wusa9 pic.twitter.com/n0e8Q5acmY— Kolbie Satterfield (@KolbieReports) November 15, 2020Trump on Saturday night weighed in on the situation, accusing D.C. Mayor Muriel BowserMuriel BowserThe Hill's Morning Report - Who will replace Justice Breyer? Bowser extends DC mask mandate through February Mask rules spark political games and a nasty environment in the House MORE (D) of not doing her job. "Radical Left ANTIFA SCUM was easily rebuffed today by the big D.C. MAGA Rally crowd, only to return at night, after 99% of the crowd had left, to assault elderly people and families," he tweeted. "Police got there, but late. Mayor is not doing her job!" he added.Radical Left ANTIFA SCUM was easily rebuffed today by the big D.C. MAGA Rally crowd, only to return at night, after 99% of the crowd had left, to assault elderly people and families. Police got there, but late. Mayor is not doing her job!— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) November 15, 2020The violence erupted after what had been a mostly peaceful day of demonstrations in D.C. A flood of Trump supporters made their way into the nation’s capital to take part in what was billed under many names, including the Million MAGA March and Stop the Steal DC, and started off at the Freedom Plaza around noon. Women for America First, a group led by former Tea Party activist Amy Kremer, organized the event at Freedom Plaza, where a mix of right-wing groups such as the Proud Boys and a smattering of the president’s supporters gathered. Most demonstrators carried signs or wore shirts alleging that there was widespread voter fraud that negatively impacted the results for Trump. Speakers at the event such as Infowars host Alex Jones encouraged the crowd not to give up hope on the election results. "It will be weeks, maybe months, but we will stick with this president, Donald J. Trump," Jones said. The event came one week after President-elect Joe BidenJoe BidenCory Booker and Rosario Dawson have reportedly split US ups estimate of Russian forces on Ukraine border to 130,000 Harris heads to Munich at pivotal moment MORE was projected to win the 2020 election. The former vice president was also projected to win Arizona and Georgia, two states that had not gone red during presidential elections since the 1990s. The president, however, has refused to concede the election, with his campaign mounting legal battles in multiple swing states throughout the country. Trump and his campaign have repeatedly alleged that the election was subject to widespread voter fraud and have made claims that Democrats have tried to steal the election. Despite Trump’s claims about voter fraud, there is no substantial evidence to suggest that the election was subject to irregularities. A coalition of state and federal election officials on Thursday released a statement saying that there was “no evidence” that any voting system was compromised or that any votes were lost during the recent general election. They added that this was the most secure election in American history. Saturday morning, the president drove by a crowd of protesters waving from the car window as the crowd cheered him on. Later in the day, the president offered encouragement to supporters by retweeting a scene of the protest and writing, “We will win!” Updated at 12:21 p.m.