 Anthony Q. Warner, 63, has been identified as the "bomber" in the Christmas day explosion in Nashville by U.S. Attorney Don Cochran.Cochran announced the update to the investigation in a Sunday afternoon news conference. "Anthony Warner is the bomber. He was present when the bomb went off, and he perished in the bombing," Cochran said. DNA found at the scene was matched to samples taken at another location searched by investigators, TBI Director David Rausch said Sunday. The TBI was involved in testing the evidence.Because they had identified a suspect, investigators said they were able to match samples to a potential family member quickly. At this time, officials said there is no indication that anyone outside of Warner was involved in the explosion. Authorities reviewed hours of surveillance footage and they say they only saw Warner.A motive in the bombing has not been released and is still under investigation according to FBI Special Agent for Public Affairs Doug Korneski. The types of explosives used in the bombing were still under investigation, authorities said. The FBI said Warner wasn’t on the radar of authorities before Friday’s explosion and declined to deem the explosion an act of terrorism.Tips from the public helped authorities initially identify Warner as a suspect. The Tennessee Highway Patrol discovered a vehicle part with the VIN that linked the RV to him.NASHVILLE BOMBING:Police bodycam video gives harrowing view from evacuation to aftermathAuthorities are asking people who knew Warner to contact them so they can understand Warner’s motive."These answers won't come quickly and will still require a lot of our team's effort," Korneski said. "None of those answers will ever be enough for those who have been affected by this event. We still have work to do."A curfew had been set to expire on Sunday afternoon but was extended until noon Monday for a smaller area than initially set. The curfew zone is bounded by James Robertson Parkway, Fourth Avenue North, Broadway and the Cumberland River."I cannot truly describe all the hard work that has gone into this investigation since Friday’s explosion," Metro Nashville Police Chief John Drake said Sunday. "Nashville is considered safe."Investigation ongoingFBI agents searched a home in Antioch and visited a real estate office in Nashville in connection to the bombing. An FBI spokesman confirmed Warner lived at the home federal agents searched Saturday afternoon. FBI Special Agent Jason Pack told The Tennessean agents visited Fridrich & Clark Realty's Green Hills office Saturday evening as well — following up on leads in the case.Owner Steve Fridrich said the company reported to the FBI that Warner had previously worked for the company. He confirmed speaking with agents Saturday. “We are one of the nearly 500 people who so far have contacted them with tips," he said. Fridrich said Warner was hired four or five years ago as a contract laborer for computer consulting for the company. Then this month, Warner informed the company in an email that he'd no longer be working for them, Fridrich said. No reason was given.“He seemed very personable to us – this is quite out of character I think," he said. “He didn’t have a computer or office here. If a computer went down he would fix it or if we got a new one in he’d put it together for us,” Fridrich said. “He'd come by once a month to the office to do work. But there were also months we went without seeing him. He also worked for other companies doing computer work.”Davidson County property records show his family has also lived in Nashville for decades.Hero cops describe moments before, after explosionSix Nashville officers ran into danger on Friday morning as they helped evacuate residents before the explosion rocked downtown. They spoke publicly for the first time Sunday. Officer James Luellen described coming to the scene after receiving a report of shots fired before 6 a.m. He said he was unsure about the sound of gunfire, but soon after heard a warning coming from an RV about a bomb. Not sure what it said, he looked to Officer Brenna Hosey to confirm what he heard. He notified Sgt. Timothy Miller, who told him to get everyone out that he could.The two, along with officers Michael Sipos, Amanda Topping and James Wells, began knocking on doors to alert residents to evacuate. Hosey describes after getting in contact with everyone they could, trying to regroup at their vehicles until the bomb squad arrived, when the message said three minutes were left until detonation. Wells, who had parked his car next to the RV when he first arrived to the scene, was making his way back to move his car, when he said he heard a voice from God, telling him to turn around to check on Topping. A few steps later, he said the bomb went off and threw him to the ground. Topping described sprinting to Wells. "I've never grabbed somebody so hard in my life," she said. The two held onto each other as they ducked into a doorway, not sure of what will come next. The officers Saturday got emotion describing getting up after the blast and trying to check on each other. Hosey said she was panicked when she couldn't get a hold of Sipos, but felt relief when she was informed he was OK but had hearing loss. NASHVILLE EXPLOSION:‘Downtown’ by Petula Clark played from RV before Nashville bomb went off, officer saysMayor: Bombing was 'attack on infrastructure'Nashville Mayor John Cooper on CBS' "Face the Nation" would not comment on the person of interest in the case, but double down on his remarks Saturday that the bombing was an "attack on infrastructure."The explosion went off outside a critical AT&T building in downtown Nashville that has had ripple effects in the city and across the region. It caused flights to be halted at the Nashville airport and multiple counties reporting their 911 lines were not working. As of Sunday morning, a motive in the explosion had not been released by investigators. Cooper and Gov. Bill Lee requested federal aid to help the businesses that have been impacted. The mayor described the devastation on Second Avenue as similar to the destruction of the March tornado. "Our hospitality and businesses are suffering," he said, regarding Metro's restrictions with COVID-19 cases surging. "It's unfair to these businesses to be bombe at the end of COVID ... All the help to make them whole should be a priority."Follow along here as we report updates in the case and its aftermath. The investigation Investigators with the FBI, ATF and the Metro Nashville Police Department converged to the 100 block of Bakertown Road in Antioch just before 11 a.m. Neighbors told The Tennessean an RV similar to the one in the explosion was parked at the home within the last two weeks. There was no sign of a similar vehicle at the Antioch residence on Saturday as teams from the ATF and the FBI cleared and searched the unoccupied home.The FBI said more than 500 tips have been reported in the past 24 hours. The investigation continues, including working with its behavioral analysis unit in Quantico. Police representatives said Saturday afternoon investigators are also still trying to determine the source of the sound of gunshots reported by witnesses Friday morning before the explosion. MNPD spokesperson Don Aaron told The Tennessean it was unclear if the sound came from inside the RV, the recording it played or elsewhere. At least three people were hospitalized and released after they were treated for minor injuries, authorities said. Traffic around downtown is being rerouted away from the wide investigation perimeter. The downtown area will be "sealed off" for further investigation and to make sure everything is "completely safe," Mayor John Cooper said. Cleanup aheadGov. Bill Lee on Saturday requested assistance for Nashville in the wake of the explosion from the the Federal Emergency Management Agency. Lee asked FEMA to help with debris removal and emergency protective measures. The request was made through the Public Assistance program, under the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act. Cooper said Second Avenue will look like a construction site in the months to come. He hoped cleanup could start next week but said checking the structural integrity of buildings was the first step in the process. One building collapsed.At least 41 businesses in the area were damaged in connection to the explosion.The American Red Cross has set up a reception center at East Park Community Center, 700 Woodland St., for victims displaced or affected by the explosion.AT&T outage continues, Titans offer space for temporary networkAT&T internet and phone service were was disrupted in the area about 12 p.m. Friday, causing widespread outages across the region that continued into Sunday evening disrupting customer service and 911 access. The outages were reported several hours after the explosion took place near an AT&T facility. The company confirmed Sunday that the building on Second Avenue North was severely damaged and the secondary system didn't last long. The explosion, followed by water and fire damage, impacted backup power generators that eventually failed, according to a statement released Sunday afternoon by AT&T."The explosion that devastated downtown Nashville in the early hours of Christmas morning did more than knock out communications for many of you. It shook your peace of mind and scarred the community that you call home. AT&T is a part of that community. We live here. We do business here. And we’re in this with you," said Jeff McElfresh, CEO of AT&T Communications, in the statement. Regional disruptions began as the generators failed, causing issues across parts of Tennessee, Kentucky and Alabama that continued into Sunday afternoon. As of 4:15 p.m. Sunday, the company reported 96% of the wireless network had been restored, 60% of business services and 86% of consumer broadband and entertainment services. More than 3 feet of water Saturday was pumped out of the building in Nashville affected by the explosion and power was restored to four floors, according to the company. Power is expected to be restored to another four floors on Sunday and working on cooling equipment that manages the facility's temperatures. The equipment on the lower levels are still being assess for flood damage. AT&T expected two dozen more trailers of disaster recovery equipment to arrive at the site by end of day Sunday.AT&T plans to set up approximately 40 portable cell sites in a parking lot at Nissan Stadium to set up a temporary network, according to the Tennessee Titans. The company is expected to be set up by the end of the day Sunday. The team said the space will be available for as long as its needed, although no timeline has been released on how long that will take. Most of the Metro Nashville Police Department’s administrators and officers use AT&T, and their phones went down Friday, according to spokesperson Kris Mumford. Mumford confirmed the department uses FirstNet, AT&T's proprietary network for public safety agencies and first responders.Mariah Timms, Holly Meyer, Emily West, Cassandra Stephenson and Adam Tamburin contributed. 