Sen. Pat Toomey, R-Pa., speaks during a ceremony Wednesday, Sept. 18, 2019, in Washington. Toomey will not seek re-election in 2022, according to a person with direct knowledge of Toomey's plans, Sunday, Oct. 4, 2020. (AP Photo/Alex Brandon) APAPIn anticipation of the formal objection being filed to Pennsylvania’s electoral college slate in Congress later tonight, U.S. Sen Pat Toomey, a Republican, took to the floor Wednesday night to defend his home state’s results.And he also continued to make clear his break with President Donald J. Trump’s bizarre crusade to hang onto his office.“We witnessed today the damage that can result when men in power and responsibility refuse to acknowledge the truth,” Toomey said. “We saw bloodshed, because a demagogue chose to spread falsehoods and sow distrust of his own fellow Americans. Let’s not abet such deception. Let’s reject this motion.”Toomey’s conclusion came after he offered a point-by-point refutation of the most common concerns Trump supporters have raised about Pennsylvania’s vote.The three-day extension on acceptance of mail-in ballots.Toomey noted he agrees with those who believe the Pennsylvania Supreme Court overstepped its authority in ordering the acceptance of mail-in ballots through Friday, Nov. 6, when the state law specified a Nov. 3 receipt deadline.The senator said he hoped that the U.S. Supreme Court overturns that decision.But, Toomey noted, that’s no reason to dispute Trump’s 80,000 vote defeat to Joe Biden because none of the 10,097 late-arriving ballots were never added to the count. “How can we possibly invalidate the entire Pennsylvania election over ten thousand votes that were not even included in the vote count?” Toomey asked.Questions about whether the expansion of mail-in ballots complied with the Pennsylvania Constitution.Toomey noted that the 2019 election law reforms were passed with strong bipartisan support by a state legislature that is controlled by Republican party majorities.“This law was not challenged when it was passed. It wasn’t challenged when it was applied during the June primary election. it was only challenged after President Trump lost the general election,” Toomey said.“Now I understand you can make a theoretical argument about whether this is consistent with Pennsylvania’s Constitution, and that needs to be resolved for future elections. But because of this constitutional question that some people have, the objectors want to prevent Pennsylvania voters from participating in the presidential election entirely.“That would be an outrageous remedy to this purported offense,” Toomey concluded.Allegations that state elections officials did not properly administer various election law provisions.Toomey noted that the Trump campaign has litigated all of these issues repeatedly in state and federal courts, and they have lost at every turn.“Certainly there were irregularities in this election,” Toomey said. “There always are. But there’s no evidence of significant fraud, conspiracies or even significant anomalies that cast any serious doubt on who actually won the election.”Toomey said the relatively small shift in Pennsylvania’s presidential vote from a 0.7 percentage point win in 2016 to a 1.2 percentage point defeat in 2020 owed precisely to patterns that repeated all over America: Trump ran poorly in densely-populated suburbs, and won many rural areas by large, by slightly smaller, margins in rural areas.“Joe Biden won the election. It’s not what I had hoped for, but that’s what happened. It was a honest victory, with the usual minor irregularities that occur on most elections,” Toomey said. “Let’s reject this motion.”Note to readers: if you purchase something through one of our affiliate links we may earn a commission.