Edit StoryMay 16, 2016,09:06am EDT|This article is more than 5 years old.Hillary Clinton has said in a speech that her husband and the ex-President, Bill Clinton, will have a job revitalising the American economy. Which is an interesting thought really, for it certainly would be both fun and interesting if we could have a rerun of the growth of the 1990s. Far more interesting than that would be what economic policy might be if and when Bill was put in charge of revitalising that economy. First off I guess we'd need to bring Brad Delong back to Treasury to deregulate Wall Street again which would indeed be interesting. Being ever so slightly more serious though, what would actually be the policies followed?   Democratic front-runner Hillary Clinton says her husband would be "in charge of revitalizing the economy" if she is elected president, The Hill reports.  Speaking at a campaign stop in Fort Mitchell, Kentucky, Clinton said her husband, former President Bill Clinton, "knows how to do it … especially in places like coal country and inner cities and other parts of our country that have really been left out."   It's very definitely true that Bill was President during some good economic times. Those don't particularly include either coal country nor the inner cities it has to be said. Coal country, in the sense of the Appalachians, has been emptying out and suffering economically for decades now and the Clinton Administration didn't reverse that at all. The inner cities were going through the tail end of the crack boom and that didn't aid matters much either. It's true that economic times were good in general around the country but those two specific areas didn't do better than others: rather, they fell further behind in those times.   Hillary Clinton has long made it clear that she looks to her husband's presidency as a model for how to manage the economy. She often notes the job creation and increases in median household income during his administration.   "When my husband was president, incomes rose for everybody," she said in Louisville on Sunday morning.  That does rather mean that we should take note of what economic policy was in Bill Clinton's time:    Mrs. Clinton mentioned her idea for her husband while speaking at a rally outside a home in northern Kentucky. Earlier this month, she said she had told Mr. Clinton that he would need to “come out of retirement” to help put people back to work.  Of course my own memories of that time are rather filtered by the passage of the subsequent years. But there's four signature policies that really stand out from that era. The first was the already mentioned financial system and markets deregulation of the time. This isn't just the repeal of Glass Steagall and no, it wasn't all forced onto a recalcitrant Clinton by a Republican Congress. It really did originate with research or position papers written by Delong and Larry Summers at the beginning of the 90s. The second was welfare reform: that was more pressed upon Clinton, true, but not entirely so. There had been a bipartisan movement starting in the late 1960s to move the whole system away from simple cash transfers and over to time limited cash aid and benefits in goods and services rather than in cash. The EITC, for example, started in 1975 and was a benefit available only to those in work, SNAP started a little earlier but was "food stamps" rather than a simple cash transfer. Section 8 vouchers and so on: they're all part of the same general movement. Don't give poor people cash, give them benefits in kind. I happen to think that's the wrong way to go but that's another matter. There was nothing unusual with regard to the general trend in the whole system about 90s welfare reform.  The third major trend was yet more trade deals including the infamous NAFTA. Again this wasn't pressed upon a reluctant Clinton. And finally there's the general policy of fiscal conservatism over this time. Bill actually left office having presided over budget surpluses for the majority of his second term (it all went sour when the tech boom collapsed, the capital gains from that driving much of the surplus but oh well), monetary policy under Alan Greenspan was hardly expansionary either at that time. So, imagine that Bill does get to come back as economic czar. If he uses the same policies he did before then we'll have a tightening up of welfare, more trade deals, aim for a budget surplus and we'll undo Elizabeth Warren's work (and Dodd Frank) and set Wall Street free again. At which point I've got to say that I think that's just a fine passel of policies. Yes, why not, let's undo some of the bad policies of the past decade or two. I have to admit though, I'm not all that sure how many Democrats would want that selection of policies. PrintReprints & Permissions