Edit StoryApr 19, 2017,12:27am EDT|I write about healthcare business and policyThis article is more than 4 years old.Tweet This Democrat Jon Ossoff blew away his Republican opposition in a special election Tuesday, but fell just short of the 50% Ossoff faces the second-place finisher, Republican Karen Handel, who tallied less than 20% of the vote in a field of 18, Democrat Jon Ossoff blew away his Republican opposition in a special election Tuesday, but fell just short of the 50% of the vote needed to avoid a runoff to represent Georgia’s Sixth Congressional District in the U.S. House of Representatives. Early Wednesday morning, CNN was among news outlets projecting a runoff. With 88% of the vote tallied, Ossoff had 48% and he needed 50% to avoid a June runoff. Ossoff faces the second-place finisher, Republican Karen Handel, who tallied less than 20% of the vote in a field of 18, most of them Republicans.   “We have defied the odds,” Ossoff said Tuesday night. “We have shattered expectations.” Heading into Tuesday’s special election, Ossoff, a 30-year-old former Congressional staffer, raised more than $8 million from across the country. Donors to Ossoff see the candidate as a vessel to level a blow against President Donald Trump, who in recent days became preoccupied with the Democrat and attacked him on Twitter.  “Jon Ossoff’s first-place finish tonight is a huge triumph for the resistance and for progressives, who boosted Ossoff to the top of a crowded race in a Republican-leaning district,” Anna Galland, executive director of MoveOn.org, said.  Democrats expect the donations for the June runoff against Handel to continue to roll in, particularly given Trump’s deteriorating popularity. And Democrats are also emboldened by Ossoff’s performance in a House district that has been held by Republicans for 38 years, most recently by Dr. Tom Price, a fierce opponent of the Affordable Care Act who was confirmed last month to be U.S. Secretary of Health and Human Services in the Trump administration. “Less than six months ago, a Republican won this district by more than 20 points,” Galland said of Price. “Tonight, a progressive Democrat got the most votes in a seat Newt Gingrich once held. The reason is clear: voters are rejecting Trump and his policies, especially the highly unpopular GOP-led healthcare repeal proposals like Trumpcare.”    The GOP’s effort to repeal and replace the ACA with Trumpcare could loom large in the June runoff. Price was one of the most vocal opponents of the ACA, President Barack Obama’s signature legislative achievement, and he regularly led dozens of futile attempts to repeal the law when Democrats controlled the White House. But even with Trump in the White House and the GOP in control of Congress, Republicans failed to get their party behind the ACA’s would-be replacement, the American Health Care Act, also known as Trumpcare. House Speaker Paul Ryan didn’t even bring the AHCA to a vote after the Congressional Budget Office said the legislation would lead to 14 million fewer Americans with insurance by 2018 and eventually 24 million would lose coverage by 2026. Price aggressively lobbied Republicans to support the AHCA, and most of the 11 Republicans running against Ossoff support a repeal of the ACA, according to Georgia media reports. Follow me on Twitter or LinkedIn. Check out my website or some of my other work here. PrintReprints & Permissions