South Dakota Gov. Kristi NoemKristi Lynn NoemTrump endorses Noem's reelection bid in South Dakota Noem signs law banning transgender athletes from female sports teams Overnight Health Care — Medicare to cover at-home COVID-19 tests MORE (R) is deploying National Guard troops to Texas to help “secure” the U.S.-Mexico border, she announced Tuesday. The move comes as record numbers of people, mostly from Central America, seek asylum at the U.S. southern border. Republicans have seized on the border crossings in recent months, blaming President BidenJoe BidenUS could spend M monthly on testing unvaccinated federal workers: official GOP senator opposes Biden court pick, likely blocking nominee Overnight Energy & Environment — Biden says Russia attack could spike oil prices MORE and his administration for failing to adequately secure the border.“The border is a national security crisis that requires the kind of sustained response only the National Guard can provide,” Noem, who’s seen as a potential 2024 presidential contender, said in a statement. “We should not be making our own communities less safe by sending our police or Highway Patrol to fix a long-term problem President Biden’s Administration seems unable or unwilling to solve.”Noem’s office said that the initial deployment of as many as 50 South Dakota National Guard troops will last between 30 and 60 days and will be paid for with a private donation. It’s not clear yet what their mission will be, but Noem’s office said that state officials are working to finalize the details of the effort. Noem’s decision to deploy National Guard troops to Texas comes days after another prospective Republican presidential candidate, Florida Gov. Ron DeSantisRon DeSantisFlorida Gov. DeSantis leads Democratic challengers: poll No 'mass exodus,' but GOP sees Trump grip loosening Congress failed to pass voting rights legislation but we can still save our democracy MORE, announced his own plans to send 50 state law enforcement officers to Texas to help secure the southern border. Former President TrumpDonald TrumpHillicon Valley — Cyberattack hits Ukrainian defense On The Money — GOP senators block Biden's Fed picks Florida county clerk's typo directed ticketed drivers to site selling Trump merchandise MORE, who has floated the idea of another bid for the White House in 2024, is expected to visit the U.S.-Mexico border with Texas Gov. Greg AbbottGreg AbbottPoll finds Abbott with 10-point lead on Beto O'Rourke in Texas O'Rourke on past remarks about taking guns: 'Not interested in taking anything from anyone' Texas National Guard soldier assigned to border dies in accidental shooting MORE (R) this week. Border security and the record number of asylum claims has emerged as a key line of attack for Republicans ahead of the 2022 midterm elections. The GOP likely needs to gain only a half dozen or so seats in the House next year to recapture a majority in the lower chamber, and they need to pick up just one seat in the Senate.Vice President Harris, who has been put in charge of overseeing migration from Central America, paid a visit to the southern border on Friday after facing weeks of criticism from Republicans for not traveling there earlier.