Edit StoryThis article is more than 4 years old.As you may have read in one of your uncle's late-night Facebook missives, President Donald Trump stands accused of having colluded with Moscow to make America not Great Again, but rather the largest province in the Russian empire. There are more to these accusations than the social media ramblings of a distraught family member, however; the FBI found enough smoke around the Trump campaign to convince the Bureau there may well be fire, launching a federal investigation into possible collusion by the current administration in early 2017.   In May, former FBI Director Robert Mueller was tabbed as special counsel to head the investigation, a sign that things had turned towards the serious. The decision to bring in Mueller was made in response to the President's dismissal of the standing FBI Director, James Comey, a move that came as Comey was reportedly intensifying his investigation into Trump's affairs.  Since its inception, Mueller's probe into the President has reportedly expanded from its original focus on Russian interference in the election process to include obstruction of justice and financial crimes. It is the latter charge that has reportedly led Mueller to employ perhaps his most powerful weapon to date: the IRS.  Lest you laugh at the idea of the nation's tax collection arm wielding significant clout, remember that the IRS has a long history of bringing down the country's most reviled citizens, from Al Capone to Leona Helmsley to, perhaps worst of all, Jersey Shore's "The Situation." According to a report in The Daily Beast -- which, to be fair, is often only slightly less slanted than your uncle's Facebook posts -- Mueller has enlisted the help of agents from the IRS' Criminal Investigations Unit.  Now, if your response to that bit of news is -- the IRS has a Criminal Investigations Unit???? -- you are not alone. But it does, and the CIU -- comprised of 2,200 special units who chase tax cheats, unearth white collar crime, and, yes, carry a gun -- is the only federal agency that is permitted to investigate potential criminal violations of the tax law, a sign that Mueller may be ready to take aim at what is perhaps the President's most well-guarded secret: his tax returns. As a reminder, despite campaign promises to the contrary, President Trump has broken from long-standing tradition and steadfastly refused to make his tax returns public. Understand, however, that the IRS may never need look at the President's return in order to close its case. It could, for example, examine the tax returns of those close to Trump, namely his former campaign CEO Paul Manafort, who Mueller's team is reportedly attempting to "flip" in hopes of gathering evidence against the current administration. There have been rumors -- cited in the Daily Beast article -- that Manafort may have failed to disclose his foreign investments on his tax return, a process that requires the simple checking of a box. The Criminal Investigation Unit is not limited to reviewing tax forms in hopes of finding a stray unchecked box or suspicious deduction; however, it has a broad reach that extends well beyond the traditional tax realm. For example, when CIU agent Jeff Novitsky began what some called a 'crusade" against steroid users in baseball in the early 2000s, he was able to expose Barry Bonds, Roger Clemens and Alex Rodriguez as cheats -- and obtain an obstruction of justice conviction against Bonds for lying to a grand jury -- by first investigating the steroid producer for money laundering. If you're wondering why President Trump doesn't simply kill the investigation by appointing a trusted associate as the head of the Tax Division -- a group within the Justice Department that would be required to approve any charges brought against the President -- well, it turns out he could have, but never did. As the Daily Beast points out, the President has neglected to appoint an Assistant Attorney General to the Tax Division, a move that he may come to regret as Mueller and the Criminal Investigation Unit dig deeper into the President's financial affairs.  PrintReprints & Permissions