They had been hopeful that McCain's close friendship with Graham and the support for the bill from Arizona's governor would be enough to win him over.McCain suggested the decision had weighed on him, adding that he takes "no pleasure" in it.“The bill’s authors are my dear friends, and I think the world of them. I know they are acting consistently with their beliefs and sense of what is best for the country. So am I," he said.Graham quickly weighed in on McCain's decision, saying he disagrees but their friendship will survive."My friendship with John McCain is not based on how he votes but respect for how he’s lived his life and the person he is," he said on Twitter.Graham added that "I respectfully disagree" with McCain and "intend to push forward for state-centric health care vs Washington-knows-best health care."Sen. Joni ErnstJoni Kay ErnstSenate passes bill ending forced arbitration in sexual misconduct cases Lawmakers rolling out Violence Against Women Act without 'controversial' provision US maintains pressure on Russia amid concerns of potential Ukraine invasion MORE (R-Iowa), speaking at a town hall in Iowa City, floated that next week's vote could be pulled. "I'll be honest, it seems unlikely that we'll be voting on this," she said, according to The Washington Post.Republicans had been open with their skepticism that the Graham-Cassidy legislation could get the needed 50 votes.Sen. Chuck GrassleyChuck GrassleyThe real reason Jim Jordan is ranting against Jan. 6 committee staff Parkland father climbs crane near White House to deliver gun violence message Biden presses Congress on gun violence on Parkland anniversary MORE (R-Iowa) told Iowa reporters that Republicans were still at least two votes short "and I don’t see those other one or two votes coming." “I would consider supporting legislation similar to that offered by my friends Senators Graham and Cassidy were it the product of extensive hearings, debate and amendment. But that has not been the case. Instead, the specter of [the] Sept. 30 budget reconciliation deadline has hung over this entire process," he said on Friday. McCain also said he couldn't back the bill without seeing a full analysis from the nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office (CBO). Without a CBO score, McCain said, lawmakers have no "reliable answers" to questions about how much the bill will cost, how many people will be covered and how it will affect insurance premiums. The CBO has said its analysis won't be ready until next month.McCain urged his colleagues to try to craft a bipartisan healthcare bill using "regular order." "We should not be content to pass health-care legislation on a party-line basis, as Democrats did when they rammed Obamacare through Congress in 2009. If we do so, our success could be as short-lived as theirs," he said. Sens. Lamar AlexanderLamar AlexanderMcConnell gets GOP wake-up call The Hill's Morning Report - Presented by Alibaba - Democrats return to disappointment on immigration Authorities link ex-Tennessee governor to killing of Jimmy Hoffa associate MORE (R-Tenn.) and Patty MurrayPatricia (Patty) Lynn MurrayCongress should create a national board on pandemic preparedness Biden's FDA pick clears key Senate hurdle Top lawmakers call for information on bomb threats at HBCUs MORE (D-Wash.) had been leading bipartisan talks to try to get a deal on a bill that would stabilize the individual insurance market. But those talks were put on hold earlier this week after the White House and Speaker Paul RyanPaul Davis RyanGOP bill highlights Republican rift on immigration How Kevin McCarthy sold his soul to Donald Trump On The Trail: Retirements offer window into House Democratic mood MORE (R-Wis.) warned they would not support a bill stabilizing ObamaCare.McCain said Alexander and Murray had been "negotiating in good faith" and urged them to resume their talks if a third GOP senator comes out against the ObamaCare repeal bill. "I fear that the prospect of one last attempt at a strictly Republican bill has left the impression that their efforts cannot succeed," he said. "I hope they will resume their work should this last attempt at a partisan solution fail." Senate Democratic leader Charles SchumerChuck SchumerAmerican unity is key to a Europe whole and free Anxious Democrats want Biden to speed up vetting for Supreme Court pick Democratic Senate debates merits of passion vs. pragmatism MORE (N.Y.) expressed a similar hope.“John McCain shows the same courage in Congress that he showed when he was a naval aviator," Schumer said. "I have assured Senator McCain that as soon as repeal is off the table, we Democrats are intent on resuming the bipartisan process.”Late-night comedian Jimmy Kimmel, who has been waging a crusade against the Graham-Cassidy bill, hailed McCain as a hero.Thank you @SenJohnMcCain for being a hero again and again and now AGAIN— Jimmy Kimmel (@jimmykimmel) September 22, 2017— This report was updated at 3:20 p.m.