       CBS News reportedly fired a staffer who previously worked for ABC News and accessed footage of the anchor Amy Robach complaining that the network killed her exposé on Jeffrey Epstein. The journalist Yashar Ali reported in his newsletter that ABC News executives learned the identity of the former staffer, then informed their counterparts at CBS News of the person's identity. The news comes after the right-wing organization Project Veritas published a leaked video showing Robach angrily discussing how ABC News refused to air her story for years. It's unclear whether the staffer who was fired leaked the footage to Project Veritas, or simply passed it to someone else who did. CBS News did not immediately respond to Insider's request for comment. Visit Insider's homepage for more stories.
CBS News fired a staffer who previously worked for ABC News and accessed explosive footage of one of its anchors complaining that the network killed her exposé about Jeffrey Epstein, according to multiple reports published Thursday.
Journalist Yashar Ali tweeted Thursday morning that two sources familiar with the matter confirmed the staffer had been fired.
Page Six also cited a source saying that CBS let the staffer go on Wednesday after ABC executives contacted the network.
The move comes just days after the right-wing organization Project Veritas published a leaked video, purportedly shot in August, featuring the anchor Amy Robach angrily discussing a story she tried to report in 2015 on the allegations against Epstein, as well as connections to the Clintons and Prince Andrew. The video was shot in-between takes, and didn't air.      Robach said ABC News refused to air her story for three years, partly out of concerns that the network would lose access to prominent figures.
She also said she believed Epstein was murdered in jail, despite confirmation from the official medical examiner that Epstein died by suicide.
ABC News previously said in a statement that the network never stopped investigating Epstein, and that Robach's reporting in 2015 didn't meet high enough standards to air.
According to Ali, ABC News executives learned the identity of the former staffer who accessed the footage of Robach, and then informed their counterparts at CBS News of the person's identity.
It's unclear whether the former staffer in question actually leaked the footage to Project Veritas, or obtained the footage and perhaps showed it to others who leaked it to Project Veritas. The suspected staffer hasn't been identified.
CBS News did not immediately respond to Insider's request for comment. Read more: ABC News denied its own anchor's claim that Buckingham Palace threatened the network over Epstein 'a million different ways' ABC says interview with Epstein accuser wasn't ready to air An ABC News anchor was caught on a hot mic saying that the network killed her Epstein exposé in 2015 and that she thinks the sex offender was '100%' murdered Bill Gates addressed his multiple meetings with Jeffrey Epstein: 'I made a mistake in judgment'
