 
Donald Trump speaks during the CNN Debate in Miami, March 10, 2016.
RHONA WISE/AFP/Getty  There will be no armistice in the ugly feud between President Donald Trump and CNN this holiday season.The cable news network announced late Tuesday night that it will boycott the White House's annual Christmas party for members of the media, news that will come as an early Christmas gift for Trump and his staff."In light of the President's continued attacks on freedom of the press and CNN, we do not feel it is appropriate to celebrate with him as his invited guests," CNN said in a statement.While CNN reporters won't partake in the free-flowing eggnog, the network said it would send a "reporting team" to the event Friday to cover any news that might break.In keeping with the president's petty attacks on CNN and other liberal media outlets, Trump's press secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders rejoiced that the boycott was "finally, good news from CNN."
Since entering the White House in January, Trump has consistently and capriciously launched attacks on CNN via social media, while praising right-wing Fox News.In July, the president posted a doctored video from wrestling organization WWE's WrestleMania event in 2007 where Trump, in a guest appearance, attacked chairman Vince McMahon. McMahon's face was obscured by the CNN logo.
In yet another scathing attack on news networks critical of his presidency, Trump tweeted Monday that there should be a contest to determine "the most dishonest, corrupt" outlet."We should have a contest as to which of the Networks, plus CNN and not including Fox, is the most dishonest, corrupt and/or distorted in its political coverage of your favorite President (me). They are all bad. Winner to receive the FAKE NEWS TROPHY!" wrote the president.And in a tweet Saturday, Trump declared that Fox News is "much more important" to Americans than CNN. He also accused the network of falsely representing U.S. politics to a major international audience..@FoxNews is MUCH more important in the United States than CNN, but outside of the U.S., CNN International is still a major source of (Fake) news, and they represent our Nation to the WORLD very poorly. The outside world does not see the truth from them!— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) November 25, 2017
CNN hit back saying it's Trump's job, not theirs, to project a positive impression of America internationally.It's not CNN's job to represent the U.S to the world. That's yours. Our job is to report the news. #FactsFirst 🍎— CNN Communications (@CNNPR) November 25, 2017  