Former National Security Advisor Michael Flynn is reportedly prepared to testify that President Donald Trump and Trump transition officials directed him to make contact with Russians, according to ABC News.Citing a Flynn "confidant," ABC News' Brian Ross reported that Flynn has "promised full cooperation" with special counsel Robert Mueller, and he is "prepared to testify against President Trump, against members of the Trump family and others in the White House. He is prepared to testify that President Trump, as a candidate, Donald Trump, ordered and directed him to make contact with the Russians, which contradicts all that Donald Trump has said at this point." ABC later corrected the report, saying that the order came when Trump was president-elect, not while he was a candidate. ABC also said that Flynn will say Trump asked him to make contact with Russia "initially as a way to work together to fight ISIS in Syria." Flynn pleaded guilty in federal court on Friday to making false statements to the FBI, a felony. The guilty plea is part of an agreement Flynn made with the special counsel's office, which is investigating Russian meddling in the 2016 presidential election. Prosecutors also released Flynn's Statement of Offense, which detailed how Trump transition officials directed Flynn to reach out to Russian officials and officials from other countries during the presidential transition. In a statement, Flynn said, "my guilty plea and agreement to cooperate with the Special Counsel's Office reflect a decision I made in the best interests of my family and of our country."ABC reported that Flynn made the decision to cooperate with Mueller only in the past 24 hours, as he faced mounting legal bills and intense pressure from prosecutors. "He is distraught about the decision, but feels he is doing the right thing for his country." Correction: A previous version incorrectly attributed to The Associated Press that Trump ordered Flynn to contact Russians. It also included incorrect ABC reporting that Trump had ordered Flynn to contact Russians during the presidential campaign.