By Eliot Shorr-Parks | NJ Advance Media for NJ.com The hoopla, the crazy questions, the media responsibilities and the practices are over.Now, all that is left? Trying to win a Super Bowl.Super Bowl LII is finally here, meaning it is almost time for the Eagles to try to capture their first Lombardi trophy is franchise history. Will they do it?Here are nine reasons there will be a parade on Broad Street when the Eagles get back to Philadelphia after beating Tom Brady and the New England Patriots:Michael Perez | AP PHOTOTHE PASS RUSHIt is hard to beat Patriots quarterback Tom Brady in the Super Bowl, but it can be done — and the two times it has, it has been with a pass rush. The Eagles have perhaps the best pass rush in the NFL, and they are very capable of carrying their teammates to a win.Not only do the Eagles have elite talent, but they have two things that are required to beat Brady.First, they have their best talent in the middle of the line, which has proven to be Brady’s kryptonite. Second, they have depth, meaning their pass rush won’t tire out as the game goes on.The Eagles have a major advantage at the line of scrimmage when the Patriots’ offense is on the field.EAGLES PLAYERS EXPLAIN WHY THEY LOVE DOUG PEDERSONDOUG PEDERSONTwo years ago, it would have been crazy talk to say that Doug Pederson was a reason the Eagles were going to win a Super Bowl. Even now, suggesting he will out coach Patriots head coach Bill Belichick sounds insane.There is no getting around the chance, however, that Pederson gives the Eagles a chance against the Patriots.Pederson is one of the best coaches in the NFL, but he has been especially sharp on Sunday’s, making big call after big call throughout the season — and seeing most of them pay off. There will be a moment on Sunday when the world questions Pederson. Then, the play will happen — and Pederson will show why he should be the NFL Coach of the Year.DOUG PEDERSON HAS A MESSAGE FOR HIS DOUBTERSMatt Slocum | AP PHOTOTHE RUNNING BACKSIn training camp, the team’s running back unit was viewed as perhaps the weakest on the team. Although no player has had a huge year individually, the Eagles have a perfect group of running backs to hurt the Patriots on Sunday.They have the size in running back LeGarrette Blount to punish the under-sized Patriots’ defense. They have a pass catcher in Corey Clement that can hurt them down the field. They have Jay Ajayi, one of the most elusive running backs in the NFL.The Eagles need to run the ball to control the clock and keep Brady off the field. They should be able to do just that.THE DEFENSE &nbspThe Eagles’ defense is not perfect, and this season, they have not been the same unit on the road as they have at home. One thing they have done consistently throughout the year, however, is create turnovers.With 31 turnovers forced during the regular season, and three in the NFC Championship game, the Eagles’ defense knows how to come away with the ball. It would not be surprising to see the Eagles create two-or-more turnovers against Brady and the Patriots.52 INTERESTING FACTS ABOUT SUPER BOWL 52JAKE ELLIOTTHe might be a rookie, but kicker Jake Elliott has not kicked like it this season. Elliott has helped kick the Eagles to wins against the Giants, the Oakland Raiders, the Los Angeles Rams and the Atlanta Falcons this season, games they wouldn’t have won if Elliott wasn’t extremely clutch.There is no denying that the pressure Elliott will face against the Patriots will be the most he has faced in his career.There as been no sign, however, that Elliott isn’t up to the challenge.8 THINGS THE PATRIOTS DO BETTER THAN THE EAGLESCharles Krupa | AP PHOTOTHE PATRIOTS ARE FALLING APARTIs this the end of the Patriots’ dynasty? More than ever, it seems like that might be the case. They have not been a great team this season. They needed a historic comeback to avoid a blowout in last year’s Super Bowl. They are losing both coordinators this offseason, and if you believe ESPN, there is some serious in-house tension involving head coach Bill Belichick and quarterback Tom Brady. Dynasties rarely end on a positive note.11 PLAYERS WHO NEED TO HAVE AN AMAZING GAMETHE PATRIOTS LINEBACKERSThe Eagles’ offense lives over the middle of the field. They like to use slot receiver Nelson Agholor over the middle, they like to target tight end Zach Ertz over the middle of the field and the like to run it right up the middle. That could be a problem for the Patriots, who are weak up the middle of the defensive line and don’t have the best set of linebackers. Pederson, Foles and the Eagles should be able to move the ball right up the middle of the field against the Patriots.WHY DOUG PEDERSON WON'T COACH SCARED VS. PATRIOTSTHE PATRIOTS DON'T HAVE A PASS RUSHWhen the Eagles had Carson Wentz at quarterback, they were able to move the ball even when the other team got pressure. That has not been the case with Foles, who is not especially mobile in the pocket. The good news for the Eagles, however, is that the Patriots pass rush is nothing special. The Patriots don’t have an elite pass rusher, and as a team, struggle to get consistent pressure on the quarterback. Foles showed against the Vikings that he can have a big game when he has time to throw. He should have time to throw against the Patriots.Bill Streicher | AP PHOTOTHIS FEELS LIKE THE EAGLES' YEARIf the Super Bowl is going to end in a storybook fashion, it sure feels like it’ll finish with the Eagles hoisting the Lombardi trophy.The Eagles have been arguably the best team in the NFL throughout the season despite having to overcome a devastating number of injuries to key players. They have proved their doubters wrong every step of the way, and every time they have seemed to be ready to collapse or take a turn for the worse, they have bounced back.They have been a winning team all season, and on Sunday, they will once again prove their critics wrong by beating the Patriots.Eliot Shorr-Parks | NJ Advance MediaWHERE TO REACH MEEliot Shorr-Parks may be reached at eshorrpa@njadvancemedia.com. Follow him on Twitter @EliotShorrParks. Find NJ.com Eagles on Facebook.PODCAST: THE NO-HUDDLE SHOWWATCH: DOUG PEDERSON AT MEDIA NIGHT