President TrumpDonald TrumpBlack voters are fleeing Biden in droves. Here's why Biden's Super Bowl prediction: 'Loves' Bengals' quarterback, but Rams 'hard to beat' GOP Senate candidate to run 'Let's go Brandon' ad during Super Bowl MORE on Monday said he will "strongly consider" giving written or in-person testimony in the House impeachment inquiry, despite his repeated refusal to cooperate with the investigation thus far.Trump responded to Speaker Nancy PelosiNancy PelosiUS officials warn diplomatic efforts are 'shrinking' amid Russia-Ukraine tensions Sunday shows: No breakthrough in Russia-Ukraine tensions Pelosi says 'defund the police' is 'not the position of the Democratic Party' MORE's (D-Calif.) suggestion on "Face the Nation" a day earlier in which she said the president could "come right before the committee and talk ... or he could do it in writing.""Even though I did nothing wrong, and don’t like giving credibility to this No Due Process Hoax, I like the idea & will, in order to get Congress focused again, strongly consider it!" Trump tweeted.Our Crazy, Do Nothing (where’s USMCA, infrastructure, lower drug pricing & much more?) Speaker of the House, Nervous Nancy Pelosi, who is petrified by her Radical Left knowing she will soon be gone (they & Fake News Media are her BOSS), suggested on Sunday’s DEFACE THE NATION....— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) November 18, 2019....that I testify about the phony Impeachment Witch Hunt. She also said I could do it in writing. Even though I did nothing wrong, and don’t like giving credibility to this No Due Process Hoax, I like the idea & will, in order to get Congress focused again, strongly consider it!— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) November 18, 2019The White House has directed officials not to comply with the impeachment inquiry, and it's unclear whether Trump would follow through on testifying himself, particularly under oath.He previously said during former special counsel Robert MuellerRobert (Bob) MuellerAn unquestioning press promotes Rep. Adam Schiff's book based on Russia fiction Senate Democrats urge Garland not to fight court order to release Trump obstruction memo Why a special counsel is guaranteed if Biden chooses Yates, Cuomo or Jones as AG MORE's investigation that he would sit for an interview, only to provide Mueller with written answers to several questions. Trump's attorneys fought against an in-person interview after expressing concerns it could be a "perjury trap" for a president who often exaggerates or makes inaccurate statements.The House Intelligence Committee last week held its first public hearings in the impeachment inquiry, which are focused on allegations that Trump abused his office by pressuring Ukraine to investigate his domestic political rivals, specifically former Vice President Joe BidenJoe BidenCory Booker and Rosario Dawson have reportedly split US ups estimate of Russian forces on Ukraine border to 130,000 Harris heads to Munich at pivotal moment MORE, a top 2020 Democratic presidential candidate, and Biden's son Hunter.Three current and former State Department officials testified publicly about their concerns that Trump's policy toward and conversations about Ukraine had become inappropriate in recent months and detailed efforts by the president's allies to oust the now-former U.S. ambassador to Ukraine.Eight more officials are scheduled to testify publicly this week. Among the witnesses are U.S. Ambassador to the European Union Gordon SondlandGordon SondlandThe Hill's 12:30 Report - Biden to mark Tuesday anniversary of George Floyd's death Trump impeachment witness suing Pompeo, State over legal fees America's practice of 'pay-to-play' ambassadors is no joke MORE, who allegedly spoke over the phone with Trump about the desired investigations into Biden and 2016 election interference.Trump has repeatedly attacked the impeachment inquiry and some of the witnesses who have made damaging allegations in the process.He ripped a State Department employee detailed to Vice President Pence's office on Sunday as a "Never Trumper" after she called his July 25 conversation with Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky "inappropriate" during a private deposition.The president has insisted that a rough transcript of the July 25 call shows it was "perfect" and serves as exonerating evidence. But Democrats have pointed to passages where Trump urges Zelensky to "look into" the Bidens and "do us a favor though" as evidence of wrongdoing.Trump has also ridiculed the impeachment proceedings as "rigged" and a "hoax" and complained that the White House has not received proper due process.Asked about the latter assertion, Pelosi said Sunday that Trump would be welcome to make his case under oath."The president could come right before the committee and talk, speak all the truth that he wants if he wants to ... take the oath of office or he could do it in writing," Pelosi said. "He has every opportunity to present his case."Updated at 9:26 a.m.