Senate Democrats on Wednesday formally launched their push to bring a vote on restoring net neutrality protections to the Senate floor.“I believe that today kicks off the most important day for the internet that the Senate has ever seen,” said Sen. Ed MarkeyEd MarkeyOvernight Health Care — Biden eyes additional COVID-19 funding Senate confirms Biden FDA nominee Biden's FDA pick clears key Senate hurdle MORE (D-Mass.), who is spearheading the net neutrality push in the Senate. Markey and other Democrats portrayed the issue as one of fairness, arguing that Republican Federal Communications Commission (FCC) Chairman Ajit Pai’s plan to scrap net neutrality would hurt consumers while protecting large corporations.“Our Republican friends say 'let the free market prevail,' ” said Senate Minority Leader Charles SchumerChuck SchumerAmerican unity is key to a Europe whole and free Anxious Democrats want Biden to speed up vetting for Supreme Court pick Democratic Senate debates merits of passion vs. pragmatism MORE (D-N.Y.) “We don’t do that for highways.”He and others argued that if net neutrality rules were scrapped consumers would have to front the bill, paying higher premiums to access the internet. “Under the Trump administration, everything is for sale — our public lands, our privacy, even our access to the internet,” said Sen. Dick DurbinDick DurbinGOP senator opposes Biden court pick, likely blocking nominee Senate leaders send Putin symbolic warning shot amid invasion fears Senate confirms Biden FDA nominee MORE (Ill.), the No. 2-ranking Democrat in the Senate.The FCC voted in December to repeal the Obama-era net neutrality rules on the grounds that they harm innovation. Pai blasted the Obama-era rules as a gross overreach and downplayed the impact of repealing them. "There will still be cops on the beat guarding a free and open internet," Pai said. "This is the way things were prior to 2015, and this is the way they will be once again."The FCC's action sparked an uproar, creating a political issue that Senate Democrats made clear they intend to highlight in the midterm election campaign.“This bill does one simple thing: It gets every member of the Senate on the record for or against net neutrality,” said Sen. Brian SchatzBrian Emanuel SchatzThe Hill's 12:30 Report: Negotiations crawl as government funding deadline nears Democrats hit limits with Luján's absence Luján stroke jolts 50-50 Senate MORE (D-Hawaii), during a press conference unveiling the net neutrality resolution.“Republicans are going to regret it from a public policy standpoint and a political standpoint,” he said. “I cannot think of an issue that polls so decisively on one side.”Republicans swung back at the Democratic effort, calling it “political theater” that threatened to get in the way of a bipartisan net neutrality deal in Congress.“Unfortunately, manufactured controversy often gets more attention in Washington than real solutions,” Senate Commerce Chairman John ThuneJohn Randolph ThuneOvernight Energy & Environment — Biden says Russia attack could spike oil prices GOP scrambles to figure out what Trump legal drama means for future  Dem plan to suspend the gas tax faces bipartisan pushback MORE (R-S.D.) wrote in a CNBC op-ed on Wednesday.Thune has repeatedly called for Democrats to come to the negotiating table on net neutrality legislation. Democrats, including Schatz, have rejected that step, saying they haven’t seen an option presented by Republicans that would enforce net neutrality rules in a strong enough manner to protect consumers.Democrats will now officially push to force a vote on net neutrality under the Congressional Review Act (CRA). If the resolution is passed by Congress and signed by President TrumpDonald TrumpHillicon Valley — Cyberattack hits Ukrainian defense On The Money — GOP senators block Biden's Fed picks Florida county clerk's typo directed ticketed drivers to site selling Trump merchandise MORE — an unlikely outcome — it would reverse Pai’s repeal of net neutrality measures. Congressional procedure allows Schumer to bring a CRA to the floor, even without Republican leadership on board, and Democrats appear to have the votes to succeed in the Senate.Every senator that caucuses with Democrats is backing the resolution, as is Republican Sen. Susan CollinsSusan Margaret CollinsOvernight Health Care — Biden eyes additional COVID-19 funding Senate confirms Biden FDA nominee Biden's FDA pick clears key Senate hurdle MORE (Maine). That gives Democrats 50 votes in favor.If Sen. John McCainJohn Sidney McCainBiden tested by brewing Russian crisis The US can aid Afghans without boosting the Taliban Five obstacles Biden faces in battle against inflation MORE (R-Ariz.), who is battling brain cancer, misses the vote, the resolution could pass 50-49.Even if it has the votes in the Senate, though, a net neutrality CRA is unlikely to pass in the House.Some business groups expressed support for the Democratic effort to keep net neutrality regulations in place.Reddit, Tinder, Tumblr and other major websites prominently displayed “Red Alert” for net neutrality banners on their websites urging users to call lawmakers and voice their support for the regulations.“We support the Congressional Review Act resolution that would restore the rules codified by the 2015 Open Internet Order,” said Kevin Martin, vice president of U.S. public policy at Facebook. “We also stand ready to work with any policymakers on a framework that will protect the open internet.”The Internet Association, a lobbying group for major technology companies such as Amazon, Google and Facebook, launched its own advocacy effort, urging constituents to email their representatives.The tech industry has waged a long campaign to preserve net neutrality rules, primarily driven by smaller, internet startups. During different phases of the net neutrality battle, companies such as Reddit and others have devoted portions of their site to pro-net neutrality messaging.“The Internet is lighting up in protest once again because this Senate vote will impact the future of the Web for years to come,” said Evan Greer, deputy director of Fight for the Future, an advocacy group that has organized pro-net neutrality demonstrations.“Net neutrality is not a partisan issue outside of Washington, D.C. Now we need to get D.C. to catch up with the rest of the country,” she added.Updated at 3:54 p.m.