Sign up for our daily briefingMake your busy days simpler with the Axios AM and PM newsletters. Catch up on what's new and why it matters in just 5 minutes.Catch up on the day's biggest business storiesSubscribe to the Axios Closer newsletter for insights into the day’s business news and trends and why they matter.Sign up for Axios Pro RataDive into the world of dealmakers across VC, PE and M&A with Axios Pro Rata. Delivered daily to your inbox by Dan Primack and Kia Kokalitcheva.Sports news worthy of your timeBinge on the stats and stories that drive the sports world with the Axios Sports newsletter. Sign up for free.Tech news worthy of your timeGet our smart take on technology from the Valley and D.C. with Axios Login. Sign up for free.Get the inside storiesGet an insider's guide to the new White House with Axios Sneak Peek. Sign up for free.Catch up on coronavirus stories and special reports, curated by Mike Allen everydayCatch up on coronavirus stories and special reports, curated by Mike Allen everydayWant a daily digest of the top Denver news?Get a daily digest of the most important stories affecting your hometown with Axios DenverWant a daily digest of the top Des Moines news?Get a daily digest of the most important stories affecting your hometown with the Axios Des Moines newsletter.Want a daily digest of the top Twin Cities news?Get a daily digest of the most important stories affecting your hometown with Axios Twin CitiesWant a daily digest of the top Tampa Bay news?Get a daily digest of the most important stories affecting your hometown with the Axios Tampa Bay newsletter.Want a daily digest of the top Charlotte news?Get a daily digest of the most important stories affecting your hometown with Axios CharlotteWant a daily digest of the top Nashville news?Get a daily digest of the most important stories affecting your hometown with the Axios Nashville newsletter.Want a daily digest of the top Columbus news?Get a daily digest of the most important stories affecting your hometown with the Axios Columbus newsletter.Want a daily digest of the top Dallas news?Get a daily digest of the most important stories affecting your hometown with the Axios Dallas newsletter.Want a daily digest of the top Austin news?Get a daily digest of the most important stories affecting your hometown with the Axios Austin newsletter.Want a daily digest of the top Atlanta news?Get a daily digest of the most important stories affecting your hometown with the Axios Atlanta newsletter.Want a daily digest of the top Philadelphia news?Get a daily digest of the most important stories affecting your hometown with the Axios Philadelphia newsletter.Want a daily digest of the top Chicago news?Get a daily digest of the most important stories affecting your hometown with the Axios Chicago newsletter.Sign up for Axios NW ArkansasStay up-to-date on the most important and interesting stories affecting NW Arkansas, authored by local reportersWant a daily digest of the top DC news?Get a daily digest of the most important stories affecting your hometown with the Axios DC newsletter.Photo: Jabin Botsford/The Washington Post via Getty ImagesPresident Trump and Vice President Mike Pence held an impassioned event on Friday with "Angel Families" — people whose children have been killed by undocumented immigrants — amid the controversy surrounding the administration over its "zero-tolerance" policy. The big picture: Trump's administration has been embroiled in a major fight this week on immigration, primarily over the implementation of child separation. Meanwhile, The families who spoke today criticized the media for not covering their stories, and thanked Trump and Pence for their commitment to them. "These are the American citizens permanently separated from their loved ones. The word you have to think about is 'permanently.'" — President TrumpWhat the families said: “You don’t hear these stories and some of our media won’t talk to you about it.”“All politicians, I don’t care what side you’re on … get it together for God’s sake, for this country, for our citizens.” “I am so honored and proud of you Mr. President, the integrity and honor you have shown us … pulling the daggers out of your back every day hasn’t been fair.” “I can’t make an opinion about the young people who are here illegally because their parents brought them ... But I can guarantee you that the government had nothing to do with that ... The parents of those children are to blame." Go deeper: Why Central Americans flee to the U.S.; What we know and don’t know on child separation