Four Democratic members of the Senate Judiciary Committee walked out of the hearing room in protest after Republicans decided along party lines to schedule a “time certain” vote on Supreme Court nominee Brett Kavanaugh for 1:30 p.m.Sens. Sheldon WhitehouseSheldon WhitehouseDemocratic Senate debates merits of passion vs. pragmatism Senators introduce a resolution honoring Tom Brady's career Senate panel advances appeals court nominee despite objections from home state Republicans MORE (D-R.I.), Richard Blumenthal (D-Conn.), Mazie HironoMazie Keiko HironoBiden to meet with Senate Judiciary Democrats on Supreme Court vacancy Will Republicans apply the 'Barrett rule' to Biden's nominee? Confirmation bias: The fighting has already begun, and Biden hasn't even named a nominee MORE (D-Hawaii) and Kamala HarrisKamala HarrisWhite House director of broadcast media leaving for private sector The allure of 'strong and wrong' Parties split on Trump, Biden bids in 2024: poll MORE (D-Calif.) walked out of the room, causing a burst of activity from photographers in the well of the hearing room who captured the moment.“I strongly object. This is just totally ridiculous. What a railroad job. My answer is no, no, no!” Hirono yelled out shortly before leaving the room.Harris declined to vote, staying silent to protest Republicans handling of the nomination, as did Booker.A clearly frustrated Sen. Chuck GrassleyChuck GrassleyThe real reason Jim Jordan is ranting against Jan. 6 committee staff Parkland father climbs crane near White House to deliver gun violence message Biden presses Congress on gun violence on Parkland anniversary MORE (R-Iowa), the chairman of the Judiciary Committee, rebuked the photographers for standing up to snap shots of the Democratic protest, obstructing the view of the audience, and threatened to kick them out.“I’m sure a lot of people are irritated right now,” Grassley said as he wrapped up his comments.He also reproached Harris for remaining silent during the roll call scheduling a vote on Kavanaugh.“It breaks our rules and customs,” Grassley said.The panel is expected to approve Kavanaugh's confirmation on Friday given the support of a key Republican, Sen. Jeff FlakeJeffrey (Jeff) Lane FlakeFlake meets with Erdoğan in first official duties as US ambassador Poll: Sinema approval higher among Arizona Republicans than Democrats Cruz to get Nord Stream 2 vote as part of deal on Biden nominees MORE (Ariz.).The Democrats who walked out held what they said was an impromptu press conference outside the committee room.“This is about raw power. You’re seeing that in displayed in this hearing this morning, you’ve been seeing it from the process in the beginning,” Harris said.Hirono said Kavanaugh’s opening statement was too partisan to be a Supreme Court justice.“I have never heard a Supreme Court justice come out and say there is a vast left-wing conspiracy to undermine his nomination,” she said.She also said Democrats had not coordinated the walkout.“We did not coordinate walking out. You know we feel this in here,” he said pointing to her heart.Lydia Wheeler contributed.