Vote.org says it has seen a flood of new voter registrations since Taylor Swift on Sunday broke her career-long silence on politics to encourage her 112 million followers to register to vote.“We are up to 65,000 registrations in a single 24-hour period since T. Swift's post,” Kamari Guthrie, director of communications for Vote.org, told told BuzzFeed News in a report published on Monday night.“Vote.org saw [Tennessee] registrations spike specifically since Taylor's post," Guthrie continued. According to Guthrie, the nonpartisan website has seen 5,183 voter registrations in Tennessee so far this month, and at least 2,144 of those voter registrations are from the past two days alone. That compares to 2,811 voter registrations from the state in September.Guthrie told the news outlet the Vote.org website has also seen a jump in traffic since Swift’s Instagram post, with approximately 155,940 unique visitors a day after the pop star’s announcement. Guthrie said that is the highest amount of traffic the site has seen since National Voter Registration Day on Sept. 25, when the site pulled in 304,942 unique visitors. "Thank God for Taylor Swift," said Guthrie.In her Instagram post on Sunday, Swift, who has long stayed quiet on her political views, endorsed former Tennessee Gov. Phil Bredesen (D) over Rep. Marsha BlackburnMarsha BlackburnBlackburn drops hold on funding bill after HHS disputes crack pipe claims Senate panel advances appeals court nominee despite objections from home state Republicans Stock trading ban gains steam but splits Senate GOP MORE (R) in the state’s Senate race.“As much as I have in the past and would like to continue voting for women in office, I cannot support Marsha Blackburn,” Swift wrote. “I will be voting for Phil Bredesen for Senate and Jim CooperJim CooperSen. Capito tests positive for COVID-19 Retiring Tennessee Democrat slams party's approach to rural voters Biden lauds EV charging plant in Tennessee as latest sign of 'manufacturing comeback' MORE for House of Representatives.”She also discussed her support for LGBTQ rights and condemned racism.“I always have and always will cast my vote based on which candidate will protect and fight for the human rights I believe we all deserve in this country,” Swift wrote. “I believe in the fight for LGBTQ rights, and that any form of discrimination based on sexual orientation or gender is WRONG. I believe that the systemic racism we still see in this country towards people of color is terrifying, sickening and prevalent.”“I cannot vote for someone who will not be willing to fight for dignity for ALL Americans, no matter their skin color, gender or who they love,” she added. 