The House approved major background checks legislation championed by Democrats on Wednesday, but not before House Republicans secured a significant victory by amending the bill at the last second. The 240-190 vote marks the most significant gun control vote in years. It would require all gun sellers to conduct background checks on firearm buyers. The successful vote follows the failure by the Senate in 2013 to pass similar bipartisan legislation to expand the federal background check system.The measure was passed in a largely party-line vote, with eight GOP lawmakers voting with Democrats. Two Democrats voted against the measure: Reps. Collin Peterson (Minn.) and Jared Golden (Maine). The GOP lawmakers who voted for the measure were Reps. Vern BuchananVernon Gale BuchananMORE (Fla.), Mario Diaz-BalartMario Rafael Diaz-BalartAnother voice of reason retires Defense contractors ramp up donations to GOP election objectors Bottom line MORE (Fla.), Brian FitzpatrickBrian K. FitzpatrickIt's time for Congress to step up funding for the Legal Services Corporation Equilibrium/Sustainability — The warming Arctic is freezing Chinese crops House Dems, green groups demand national biodiversity strategy from Biden MORE (Pa.), Will HurdWilliam Ballard HurdHillicon Valley — YouTube takes some heat Former GOP rep: Social media companies should be able to suspend Trump, others for 'boldfaced lies' Hillicon Valley — Presented by Ericsson — Tackling the misinformation 'crisis' MORE (Texas), Pete KingPeter (Pete) KingBiden pays homage to Obama by rocking tan suit during birthday week Newsmax anchor Greg Kelly to host New York radio show Top GOP lawmakers call for Swalwell to be removed from Intelligence Committee MORE (N.Y.), Brian MastBrian Jeffrey MastHillicon Valley — YouTube permanently bans Dan Bongino Amazon endorses legislation to end federal prohibition on marijuana Mask rules spark political games and a nasty environment in the House MORE (Fla.), Chris SmithChristopher (Chris) Henry SmithLawmakers seek 'assurances' Olympic uniforms not linked to forced labor Biden signs bill punishing China for Uyghur abuses Last living Nuremberg Trials prosecutor deserves Congressional Gold Medal MORE (N.J.) and Fred UptonFrederick (Fred) Stephen UptonOverdose epidemic costs US T per year: research The fates of the 10 House Republicans who voted to impeach Trump House Republican, Democrat say political environment on Capitol Hill is 'toxic' MORE (Mich.). Many of them represent swing districts. Sen. Chris Murphy (D-Conn.), who has been a vocal advocate for gun control, appeared in the House chamber for the vote. The measure is unlikely to become law, as it is not expected to receive a vote in the GOP Senate. Before the final vote, however, Republicans in the minority won on a procedural vote that forced Democrats to rewrite their bill. Such motions to recommit are rarely successful in the House, but this is the second such victory by the GOP since Democrats regained the majority in January.The motion to recommit added language to the bill that requires U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) to be notified when immigrants who do not have legal status attempt to purchase a firearm. The last-minute change came as a major win for Republicans, who saw identical language shot down in the House Rules Committee. The victory was an embarrassment for Democrats, who were unable to whip enough votes to defeat the measure. Twenty-six Democrats backed it, including a number of centrists who won election last fall in swing districts, such as Reps. Anthony Brindisi (N.Y.), Angie Craig (Minn.), Joe CunninghamJoseph CunninghamTrump endorses Rep. Nancy Mace's primary challenger GOP challenger says Mace 'sold out President Trump' Mace chief of staff steps down during turbulent week MORE (S.C.), Ben McAdams (Utah), Max RoseMax RoseDe Blasio decides against run for Congress 'Dismantling Democracy' to save it: How Democrats rediscovered the joys of rigging elections De Blasio reportedly considering run for House seat MORE (N.Y.), Mikie SherrillRebecca (Mikie) Michelle SherrillMalinowski is latest lawmaker to test COVID-19 positive after Ukraine trip Democratic rep tests positive for COVID-19 upon return from Ukraine trip SALT change likely to be cut from bill, say Senate Democrats MORE (N.J.). Elissa SlotkinElissa SlotkinAbrams apologizes for not wearing mask in photo with school children Mask debates generating sparks on campaign trail House passes sweeping China competition bill MORE (Mich.) and Abigail SpanbergerAbigail Davis SpanbergerDemocratic Senate debates merits of passion vs. pragmatism Stock ban faces steep hurdles despite growing support On The Money — Inflation hits highest rate since February 1982 MORE (Va.).The underlying bill was spearheaded by Reps. Mike Thompson (D-Calif.) and King and had a total of five Republican co-sponsors.The legislation aims to expand requirements for background checks on private sales including those made at gun shows, on the internet or through classified ads.Under current law, only licensed gun dealers are mandated to conduct background checks on those looking to purchase a gun. “There's no reason to continue to make it easy for people who are legally prohibited from possessing firearms to acquire them,” House Judiciary Chairman Jerrold Nadler (D-N.Y.) said during debate on the floor ahead of the vote.“By circumventing the background check process. H.R. 8 would close this dangerous loophole and save many, many lives.”But critics say it fails to address the problems that have led to mass shootings in the past, arguing it makes it more difficult for law-abiding citizens to exercise their constitutional rights. House Minority Whip Steve Scalise (R-La.) — who sustained life-threatening injuries after being shot at Republicans’ congressional baseball practice in 2017 — argued it would make it more difficult for gun owners to provide assistance to those looking to defend themselves in potentially dangerous situations.“For example, to loan a gun to a friend who is a victim of domestic violence who's asking for help to borrow a gun to defend themselves, you can go to federal prison now for a practice as basic as that,” he told The Hill.Under the new House legislation passed on Wednesday, exemptions would be made for transfers for hunting purposes, target shooting and self-defense, as well as gifts between family members.Top Republicans advocated for legislation spearheaded by Rep. Doug Collins (R-Ga.), the ranking member of the House Judiciary Committee, aimed at strengthening law enforcement's response to potential threats and cutting down on illegal street sales of firearms.“The sad part about it is they claim this is the answer and the first step. The actuality is it's at best a side step and may actually be a step backward and will not do what is being claimed to do,” Collins said of the Democrat-backed bill on the floor. House Democrats have made strengthening gun regulations a top priority since taking back control of the lower chamber.The House is expected to take up a second gun-related bill Thursday, which would lengthen the review period on gun sales. It is also expected to pass along party lines and then face tough odds in the Senate.This story was updated at 6:20 p.m.