Multiple advertisers have reportedly said they will pull their ads from Fox News shows hosted by Jeanine Pirro and Tucker Carlson in the wake of inflammatory comments made by each of the hosts.At least three advertisers have pulled ads from Pirro's show since she suggested during a segment on "Justice with Judge Jeanine" last Saturday that Rep. Ilhan Omar’s (D-Minn.) Islamic beliefs put her at odds with the Constitution, according to The Hollywood Reporter. “Think about it: Omar wears a hijab,” Pirro said during her opening monologue on Saturday night. “Is her adherence to this Islamic doctrine indicative of her adherence to Sharia law, which in itself is antithetical to the United States Constitution?” Fox News issued a statement condemning Pirro's remarks a day after her show."We strongly condemn Jeanine Pirro’s comments about Rep. Ilhan OmarIlhan OmarBlack women lawmakers commend Biden on commitment for Supreme Court nominee Congressional Black Caucus members press DOJ on voting rights: 'No lawsuit is too trivial' Omar seeking third term in Congress MORE,” the network said. “They do not reflect those of the network and we have addressed the matter with her directly.”A spokesperson for Letgo, an online marketplace for buying and selling used goods that advertised on her episode over the weekend, told the magazine that the company also condemns Pirro’s comments as “offensive and completely contrary to our values.”"We are in the process of ensuring our ads will no longer run during her show,” the representative continued. Novo Nordisk, a Danish pharmaceutical company that advertises diabetes medicine on the show, told the magazine that it too would be "pausing" its campaign."At Novo Nordisk, we advertise across many cable networks to raise awareness of our medicines and the disease they treat," the company continued. "We respect each person’s right to express their thinking and beliefs, however, we are reevaluating our advertising on this program at this time.” A spokesperson for the personal finance company NerdWallet, which also featured advertising on Pirro’s show over the weekend, told the magazine that it would also no longer be advertising on the program."We're no longer advertising on this show and don't have plans to in the future,” the spokesperson said. NerdWallet in December similarly ceased advertising on Carlson’s show after he prompted backlash for saying immigration makes the country "dirtier."Carlson is dealing with a new controversy over comments he made about women and minorities during appearances on a radio show between 2006 and 2011.Bedding and sleepwear company SHEEX said Tuesday it will no longer be running advertising on Carlson’s show. "Our advertising placement should never be construed as an endorsement of the views of any individual, program content, or network," the company said, according to The Hollywood Reporter."However, due to the inappropriate statements of Tucker Carlson that have recently come to light, SHEEX has made the decision to cease advertising on his television program, Tucker Carlson Tonight,” the company added.Hours after Media Matters, a left-leaning watchdog organization, surfaced a variety of past derogatory remarks Carlson made on the “Bubba the Love Sponge" radio program, Carlson said he wouldn’t apologize for “saying something naughty on a radio show more than a decade ago.” "Rather than express the usual ritual contrition, how about this: I’m on television every weeknight live for an hour. If you want to know what I think, you can watch. Anyone who disagrees with my views is welcome to come on and explain why,” Carlson said.During a broadcast this week, Carlson also said that “toughness is a rare quality in a TV network, and we are grateful for that.” “Second, we’ve always apologized when we’re wrong, and will continue to do that. That’s what decent people do. They apologize. But we will never bow to the mob. Ever. No matter what,” Carlson also said.Asked about the advertisers decision, a representative for Fox News pointed The Hill to a previous statement it shared in December when multiple companies pulled ads from Carlson's program over his immigration comments. At the time, Fox criticized Media Matters and other liberal groups for seeking to drive advertisers from Fox.“We cannot and will not allow voices like Tucker Carlson to be censored by agenda-driven intimidation efforts from the likes of Moveon.org, Media Matters and Sleeping Giants,” the company said in a statement at the time. “Attempts were made in November to bully and terrorize Tucker and his family at their home. He is now once again being threatened via Twitter by far left activist groups with deeply political motives.”“While we do not advocate boycotts, these same groups never target other broadcasters and operate under a grossly hypocritical double standard given their intolerance to all opposing points of view,” the company added.Marianne Gambelli, the president of advertising sales at Fox News, also told The Hill in a statement later on Friday that more than 100 advertisers attended the network's first ever "upfront presentation" on Tuesday.Gambelli said the presentation showcased the news channel's "best in class journalism and opinion programming.""We were extremely proud to open our doors and introduce the media buying community to our America’s Watching campaign, incredible team of talent and new state of the art studios," she added.