Former New York Gov. David Paterson (D) said Sunday that Lt. Gov. Kathy Hochul (D) will be well-suited for the job when takes over for New York Gov. Andrew CuomoAndrew CuomoGillibrand endorses Hochul in bid for full term as New York governor Working Families Party endorses primary challenger to New York Gov. Hochul Batya Ungar-Sargon, deputy opinion editor at Newsweek, says she believes Andrew Cuomo 'is poised for a comeback' MORE’s (D) following his resignation.When Hochul takes over, she will be the first woman to serve as governor in the state's history. In an interview with John Catsimatidis on WABC 770 AM, Paterson discussed the task ahead for Hochul and the changes that will come when she assumes her new role as governor. “I think she is really going to surprise New Yorkers by how effective she is. She’s a moderate to a certain degree, but on the issues that are really important, I think she comes down on the right side,” Paterson said.Paterson was the first legally blind person and first Black person to be sworn in as governor of New York, serving from 2008 to 2010.Paterson's career followed a similar trajectory to Hochul — he served as lieutenant governor of New York and took over the top post in the state after former Gov. Eliot Spitzer resigned due to a prostitution scandal. Paterson became governor following Eliot Spitzer’s resignation due to a prostitution scandal.Hochul will take over for Cuomo who announced his resignation earlier this week following a report issued New York Attorney General Letitia James (D). The report was released following an investigation that found the governor sexually harassed multiple women and retaliated against one who threatened to speak up about it.Paterson also predicted that Hochul will clean house, getting rid of staff members who worked for her predecessor. “I get the feeling that there’s going to be a little bit more of a housecleaning than you might think — that there is a real desire to change the whole make-up of the governor's office and how it operates,” Paterson stated.“That’s a very good thing to do because in 2008, when I became governor [following Spitzer’s resignation], I didn’t do that right away and it came back to haunt me [because the people I kept stabbed me in the back],” he added.John Catsimatidis is an investor in The Hill.