 Several Hollywood figures are throwing their weight behind Gavin Newsom, as the California governor fights a recall election in the state.Voters in the Golden State are now just two weeks away from the gubernatorial recall election that will determine whether the sitting governor will remain in office for the rest of his term or lose his seat to one of his many challengers.All registered voters will receive a mail-in ballot ahead of the day on September 14 and a number of politically engaged celebrities are already using their platforms to support Newsom's effort."I know not all of you live in CA, but trust me, the #recall election there will affect you too, eventually," tweeted Bette Midler. "So, if you know someone in #California, nag someone in California! #KnowSomeoneNagSomeone. #VoteNoRecall."
Meanwhile, Charmed star Alyssa Milano urged her followers to return their mail-in ballot as soon as possible."CALIFORNIA-don't get complacent! Don't assume somebody else will vote," she tweeted. "We need each of you to #VoteNo and #StopTheRepublicanRecall if we're going to protect the state from a Trump clone. Please vote NO and return your ballot as soon as you can."
Marvel star Mark Ruffalo also reminded his followers of the voter registration deadline, tweeting: "CALIFORNIA: There's a Special Election on September 14th to determine whether to recall Governor Newsom. Are you registered to vote? The voter registration deadline is TODAY. Visit https://registertovote.ca.gov #StopTheRecall."
Actress Amber Tamblyn added: "I'm a California native born and raised. Please, my fellow Californians, this is NOT the right choice or the way forward. Register to vote today and Vote NO on the recall. https://registertovote.ca.gov #StopTheRecall."Hollywood legend Barbra Streisand urged her followers not to "sit this one out.""There is too much at stake to sit this one out! Vote no on the recall by September 14th #gavinnewsom #reproductivejustice #climateaction #guncontrolnow #stoptherecall #voteno," she tweeted.
The White Lotus' Connie Britton echoed this sentiment and added: "CALIFORNIA: There's a Special Election on September 14th to determine whether to recall Governor Newsom. Are you registered to vote? The voter registration deadline is TODAY. Visit https://registertovote.ca.gov #StopTheRecall."
If Newsom defeats the recall, he will remain in office through the 2022 midterm elections and also have the opportunity to run for re-election.In the run-up to September 14, Newsom and his challengers will be presenting their final arguments to voters. His campaign has so far encouraged voters to reject the recall.Conservative radio host Larry Elder is currently leading in the polls as voters' top Republican choice to replace Newsom.
A total of 46 candidates will appear on the recall election ballot—24 are Republicans, nine are Democrats and the rest are either third-party candidates or have declared no party preference.Other prominent candidates include television personality and former Olympian Caitlyn Jenner, Republican businessman John Cox, former San Diego mayor Kevin Faulconer and Republican state lawmaker Kevin Kiley.Democratic real estate broker Kevin Paffrath will also be on the ballot.
California Gov. Gavin Newsom speaks during a news conference at Manny's on August 13, 2021, in San Francisco, California. California Gov. Gavin Newsom kicked off his "Say No" to recall campaign as he prepares to face a recall election on September 14. Justin Sullivan/Getty Images  