Former Vice President Walter Mondale, who was also the Democratic nominee for president in 1984, died on Monday at the age of 93.Kathy Tunheim, a spokesperson for the family, confirmed the former vice president’s death in an email to The Hill. Axios first reported the news of Mondale’s death.According to Tunheim, Mondale died peacefully of natural causes at his home in downtown Minneapolis at 7:21 p.m. while surrounded by his immediate family.Prior to serving as vice president during former President Carter’s single term in the White House, Mondale represented Minnesota in the Senate for 12 years. Before that, he was Minnesota’s attorney general for four years. Mondale also held a post in the Clinton administration, serving as ambassador to Japan.Mondale was the recipient of many calls and messages from friends and current and former public officials in his final days, according to Tunheim.Axios on Monday evening reported that Mondale spoke with President BidenJoe BidenUS could spend M monthly on testing unvaccinated federal workers: official GOP senator opposes Biden court pick, likely blocking nominee Overnight Energy & Environment — Biden says Russia attack could spike oil prices MORE, Vice President Harris, former presidents Carter and Clinton, and Minnesota Gov. Tim WalzTim WalzMinnesota court makes changes to House Democrat's district 2 shot, 1 fatally at Minnesota school The Hill's Morning Report - Presented by National Industries for the Blind - Biden calls for omicron concern, but not panic MORE (D) by phone on Sunday as his health was fading. He also spoke to his friend and former campaign staffer Tom Cosgrove.According to Axios, Mondale sent a final goodbye email to 320 staffers, spanning more than four decades, to express how much they meant to him, adding that he knew that they would keep up “the good fight.”“Before I Go I wanted to let you know how much you mean to me. Never has a public servant had a better group of people working at their side! Together we have accomplished so much and I know you will keep up the good fight,” Mondale wrote, according to Axios, which obtained a copy of the email.“Joe in the White House certainly helps,” Mondale continued before signing the note from “Fritz.”The message, Axios noted, was prepared to be sent upon his death.Cosgrove told Axios that Mondale was relieved after Biden won over former President TrumpDonald TrumpHillicon Valley — Cyberattack hits Ukrainian defense On The Money — GOP senators block Biden's Fed picks Florida county clerk's typo directed ticketed drivers to site selling Trump merchandise MORE in the 2020 election, telling Axios that “there was a difference after the inauguration -- a letting go” and adding that “there was a big exhale of relief.”Mondale made history during his time in politics. He became the first major-party candidate to select a female running mate, tapping former New York Rep. Geraldine Ferraro to join him on the Democratic ticket.Additionally, Mondale was the first vice president to have an office in the White House, leading to unprecedented, frequent access to the president, according to the Wilson Center.Mondale was married to his wife, Joan Mondale, from 1955 until her death in 2014. He is survived by his two sons, Ted and William Mondale, in addition to a brother and six grandchildren. He was preceded in death by his daughter, Eleanor.Updated 10:11 p.m.