California Gov. Gavin Newsom (D) defeated a Republican-backed effort to remove him, AP projected on Tuesday night.Why it matters, via Axios' Margaret Talev: Tuesday's results highlight the limits of Republicans trying to use Trump tactics in a deeply Democratic state.The campaign of Larry Elder — a conservative radio show host and Black Republican who has embraced Trump and anti-COVID vaccine rhetoric — in particular may have done more to help Newsom than hurt him by motivating Democrats to cast their ballots. What he's saying: Newsom thanked Californians at a news conference for "overwhelmingly" voting "no" in the election, adding it meant they were saying "yes" to a lot of his policies, such as his pandemic response and environmental, racial, social justice issues.He continued that people had voted "yes" to their "right to vote without fear of fake fraud or voter suppression" — a swipe at scaremongering from some conservative figures peddling the Trump-esque lie that the state's election might be rigged.But Newsom added: "We may have defeated Trump, but Trumpism is not dead in this country. The Big Lie, the January 6 insurrection, all the voting suppression efforts that are happening all across this country."By the numbers: Newsom received more than 5.7 million "no" votes (64.7%) with nearly 75% of precincts reporting just before 3:30a.m. ET, per state figures.The big picture: Newsom got a boost in the lead-up to Tuesday's election, with several high-profile Democrats joining him on the campaign trail. President Biden, Vice President Kamala Harris and Sen. Elizabeth Warren (D-Mass.) each made stops in California in recent days. Former President Obama also appeared in a campaign ad. Biden warned voters on Monday that if Newsom was ousted, the state would end up with a "clone of Donald Trump" as governor. Catch up quick: The recall efforts gained momentum last year as frustration among many conservatives grew over Newsom's COVID-19 restrictions and other policies. Newsom has also been criticized for reportedly misleading the public about the progress his office made in shoring up wildfire prevention.More than 45 candidates were on the recall ballot, including Elder, who emerged as Newsom's biggest threat. The California Republican Party chose not to endorse any candidate in the recall election, hoping the decision would unite their base toward defeating Newsom in the deeply Democratic state. Flashback: This was the second time in the state's history that a gubernatorial recall campaign succeeded in getting on the ballot. California voters removed Democratic Gov. Gray Davis and replaced him with Republican Arnold Schwarzenegger in 2003. Editor's note: This article has been updated with comment from Newsom and state election data.