  The woman, who is in her 60s, remained hospitalized Friday, but her condition had been stabilized and she was “clinically doing well," said Dr. Allison Arwady, the Chicago health commissioner, during a news call with the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. The woman traveled to Wuhan, China, in late December and on Jan. 13 returned to Chicago, Arwady said.  Two deaths were confirmed outside the Chinese province of Hubei. The outbreak began last month in the city of Wuhan in Hubei — a city four times the population of Chicago. Scientists have identified the illness as a new kind of coronavirus, a large family of viruses, including those that cause the common cold.  The Chicago resident is the second confirmed coronavirus case in the United States. Earlier this week, a Washington state resident in his 30s was diagnosed with the virus. He had traveled to the same region of China.   Nationwide, more than 2,000 people had been screened for the virus as of Thursday, and 63 patients in 22 states were being investigated Friday because of possible signs of the virus, according to the CDC. Local officials refused to say how many of those patients are in Chicago or in Illinois, but they are trying to identify others who traveled to Wuhan before the two confirmed cases. Still, Arwady and other public health officials said the risk to the general public remains low despite the confirmation of the case.  U.S. Sen. Dick Durbin, D-Ill., who was briefed Friday on the situation, said in a video posted Friday morning that “my understanding (is the woman) was administering to her elderly father who was sick while she was” in China.   The Chicago woman didn’t have any symptoms while traveling, but she began to feel unwell a couple days after arriving home, Arwady said. When she called her doctor’s clinic, her doctor referred her to a hospital that began treating her and started ruling out other possible illnesses, Arwady said in a news conference with other local officials.  Health officials did not detail what symptoms the woman experienced. In general those who have contracted the virus might experience a fever, a cough and shortness of breath.   The woman was diagnosed with the virus after undergoing testing by the CDC, Arwady said.  The CDC was sending a team to Chicago to interview the woman and her family about people she has had contact with since returning to the U.S., Durbin said.  There weren’t any other Chicago or Illinois residents who traveled with the woman, Arwady said. For now, officials do not believe she was contagious when she was traveling, Arwady said.  Officials did not say at which hospital the woman was being treated, but they do know she had not taken public transportation in Chicago and had not attended large gatherings after she returned home, Arwady said. The woman had limited close contact at her home before she was hospitalized, and officials are monitoring the people she was in contact with for any signs of coronavirus, she said.   The woman will remain hospitalized and undergo regular testing until she no longer shows signs of being infectious, Arwady said.  China expanded its lockdown against the deadly new virus to an unprecedented 36 million people and rushed to build a prefabricated, 1,000-bed hospital for victims Friday. Meanwhile, France announced two people had fallen ill with the virus — the disease’s first appearance in Europe  Confirmation of the local coronavirus case comes on the eve of the Lunar New Year, arguably the most important Chinese holiday where it’s a tradition to return to one’s hometown and reunite with family. In the city’s typically bustling Chinatown, some restaurants were reporting cancellations as some have opted to celebrate at home. The neighborhood’s Walgreens sold out of face masks within hours and others were putting together packages to send to Wuhan.  State officials have been in contact with hospitals and medical providers to exchange information about testing and guidance in case a possible patient shows up at a doctor’s office, said Dr. Jennifer Layden, chief medical officer for the Illinois Department of Public Health.  “This coordination between providers, hospitals and public health is critical for our continued effort to best respond and reduce further transmission,” Layden said Friday.    Air travelers arrive in Terminal 5 at O'Hare International Airport in Chicago on Jan. 24, 2020. (E. Jason Wambsgans / Chicago Tribune)   Public health officials noted the Chicago woman diagnosed with coronavirus did the right thing by calling her doctor first with concerns about her symptoms rather than showing up in person at the clinic.  In the suburbs, local health departments also have been fielding questions from residents, schools and organizations. As in all cases of viral illnesses, health officials are encouraging people to wash their hands frequently, avoid interacting with people who are sick and make sure all their immunizations are up to date, said Susan Stack, a spokeswoman for the Kane County Health Department.  “If a person thinks they might be ill, it is advised to call your health care provider before you seek medical attention,” she said. “They might have quarantine procedures for you to follow so as not to spread the disease."  The CDC and U.S. Customs and Border Protection began screening passengers coming from Wuhan to O’Hare for symptoms of the virus Thursday, according to a memo from the Chicago Department of Public Health sent to airport employees.  On Friday, only one or two workers at O’Hare were spotted wearing masks.  “Better safe than sorry,” said a masked worker.  Passengers on a United flight from Beijing to Chicago Friday morning said they went through an extra temperature check before departing in Beijing but did not go through additional screening when they landed. Some noticed signs warning travelers about the virus and encouraging those who had been to Wuhan and felt sick to notify someone on the way to customs after landing.  Travelers said most passengers and crew wore masks during the 12.5-hour flight, and some kept them on after landing.  Jay Humphries, who works with the Beijing Royal Fighters, a professional basketball team, flew to the U.S. the day after the league decided to postpone the season for three weeks because of the outbreak.  Humphries, of Denver, said he wasn’t particularly concerned because he lives in a hotel in Beijing and was unlikely to come into contact with someone from Wuhan.  “Of course it’s a bit of a different atmosphere, but I wasn’t concerned,” he said.  Exquilynn Stanford Brown, of Chicago, who had been visiting Humphries, wore a mask while traveling to be cautious.  Though they were not initially concerned, “When people started to leave, we thought maybe we should too,” she said.  Earlier this week, United and American airlines’ flight attendant unions urged the airlines to put emergency measures in place, including sharing information on identifying signs and symptoms and procedures for handling people who many be ill with the virus.  Airlines reported Friday they were taking more precautions. United is issuing masks to crews working on flights from China, though workers don’t need to wear them unless they are interacting with a passenger showing symptoms, said Charles Hobart, a spokesman for the airline. American is stocking extra hand sanitizer wipes on China-bound flights.  American and United are giving passengers refunds if they cancel trips to Wuhan. Delta Air Lines will let customers reschedule or cancel flights to Beijing or Shanghai.  Even though the precautions are worthwhile, Travelers have a low chance of catching the virus at airports, said Robert Citronberg, director of infectious diseases at Advocate Lutheran General Hospital in Park Ridge. Generally, those who have contracted coronavirus got it as a result of close contact with someone who has the disease, according to the CDC.  Hospitals in the Chicago area already had started screening patients for the virus earlier this week. Medical staff have been asking patients about their travel history if they have coronavirus symptoms. Experts say they don’t know how easily it can spread and many of the symptoms mimic those associated with the flu.  Meanwhile, some area universities have sent advisories to students and faculty, urging caution, particularly if they are feeling unwell or were planning to travel to China.  Officials at Northwestern University are urging students and faculty who have traveled to the Wuhan region to immediately seek medical care if they are ill.  Not many students are traveling abroad during the winter quarter, but Northwestern officials are evaluating any school-sponsored spring break trips to China. Summer travel remains on schedule so far.  “The university encourages all members of the Northwestern community to consider postponing travel to China at this time, given the uncertainty about how rapidly the virus is spreading, as well as the possibility of travel disruptions due to new areas in China that are under quarantine,” officials wrote in a campus message Thursday. “Keep in mind that Lunar New Year holidays, between now and Feb. 3, is a busy travel period during which the virus could spread further throughout China and other countries in the area.”  The University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign and the University of Chicago were urging students who feel sick to go to campus health centers if they have come in contact with someone who might have the virus.  Some businesses are also taking precautions. Chicago-based Archer Daniels Midland Co. is using teleconferencing technology when possible to conduct business and minimize the need to travel to and from China, according to a statement from the company.  Chicago Tribune’s Angie Leventis Lourgos, Abdel Jimenez, Sophie Sherry, Alexia Elejalde-Ruiz, Grace Wong and The Associated Press contributed.  