President BidenJoe BidenUS could spend M monthly on testing unvaccinated federal workers: official GOP senator opposes Biden court pick, likely blocking nominee Overnight Energy & Environment — Biden says Russia attack could spike oil prices MORE and other members of the White House on Saturday took a victory lap following passage of the $1.2 trillion bipartisan infrastructure bill, quipping that "infrastructure week" has finally arrived in Washington."Finally, infrastructure week!" Biden said to open his remarks at the White House on Saturday touting passage of the bill. "I'm happy to say that: infrastructure week."The House late Friday passed the bill by a vote of 218-203. Lawmakers sent the legislation to Biden’s desk after a weeks-long standoff over Democrats' larger $1.75 trillion social spending package, which progressives demanded be passed in tandem with the bipartisan bill.The lower chamber on Friday night advanced a rule that establishes debate parameters for the bigger package, but the chamber is not expected to vote on it until later this month.“So does this mean it’s finally infrastructure week?” ABC News reporter Jonathan Karl tweeted after the House joined the Senate in passing the bipartisan bill."You better believe it," White House communications director Kate BedingfieldKate BedingfieldWhite House director of broadcast media leaving for private sector White House spokesperson: Biden laid a foundation for progress but has more to do Overnight Energy & Environment — Biden seeks to reverse Trump on Arctic drilling MORE replied, with other White House officials also touting "infrastructure week."You better believe it. https://t.co/2UO61WTlLF— Kate Bedingfield (@KBeds) November 6, 2021The press and pundits may count him out at times, but President Biden proved them wrong. Infrastructure week is here. pic.twitter.com/ccCY0A0Xo0— Matt Hill (@MattHill46) November 6, 2021“Infrastructure week” has been a fixture in the political lexicon for several years, with the running joke going back to the previous administration, when then-President TrumpDonald TrumpHillicon Valley — Cyberattack hits Ukrainian defense On The Money — GOP senators block Biden's Fed picks Florida county clerk's typo directed ticketed drivers to site selling Trump merchandise MORE held a week of events in 2017 aimed at ramping up support for a trillion-dollar infrastructure proposal.The week was overshadowed in part because of high-profile testimony on Capitol Hill from former FBI Director James ComeyJames Brien ComeyDemocrats in a fury as Trump docs revive trauma of Clinton emails Hillary 2024? Given the competition, she may be the Dems' best hope Trump draws attention with admission he 'fired Comey' MORE, whom Trump had fired.Some on Twitter took jabs at the former president for essentially creating the joke, with White House deputy press secretary Andrew Bates calling it "yet another inherited failure reversed."And to state the obvious, this is a knock on the Trump Administration.— Andrew Bates (@AndrewJBates46) November 6, 2021Others on Twitter got in on the running joke as well."After 4.5 years...infrastructure week is finally over - quite an achievement," MSNBC host Stephanie Ruhle tweeted. After 4.5 years...infrastructure week is finally over - quite an achievement https://t.co/tjrxz5wc2N— Stephanie Ruhle (@SRuhle) November 6, 2021“After a long night, I’m proud to have voted YES for the bipartisan infrastructure bill, an investment that will change the everyday lives of all Pennsylvanians,” Rep. Susan WildSusan WildOvernight Health Care — Moderna's COVID-19 vaccine approved Overnight Energy & Environment — Biden tries to reverse Trump on power plants 23 House Democrats call for Biden to keep full climate funds in Build Back Better MORE (D-Pa.) tweeted. “So, can I finally say it? It’s infrastructure week.”After a long night, I’m proud to have voted YES for the bipartisan infrastructure bill, an investment that will change the everyday lives of all Pennsylvanians.… So, can I finally say it?It’s infrastructure week.— Rep. Susan Wild (@RepSusanWild) November 6, 2021Happy Infrastructure Week! pic.twitter.com/THz4hOIox6— Democratic Governors (@DemGovs) November 6, 2021