Sign up for our daily briefingMake your busy days simpler with the Axios AM and PM newsletters. Catch up on what's new and why it matters in just 5 minutes.Catch up on the day's biggest business storiesSubscribe to the Axios Closer newsletter for insights into the day’s business news and trends and why they matter.Sign up for Axios Pro RataDive into the world of dealmakers across VC, PE and M&A with Axios Pro Rata. Delivered daily to your inbox by Dan Primack and Kia Kokalitcheva.Sports news worthy of your timeBinge on the stats and stories that drive the sports world with the Axios Sports newsletter. Sign up for free.Tech news worthy of your timeGet our smart take on technology from the Valley and D.C. with Axios Login. Sign up for free.Get the inside storiesGet an insider's guide to the new White House with Axios Sneak Peek. Sign up for free.Catch up on coronavirus stories and special reports, curated by Mike Allen everydayCatch up on coronavirus stories and special reports, curated by Mike Allen everydayWant a daily digest of the top Denver news?Get a daily digest of the most important stories affecting your hometown with Axios DenverWant a daily digest of the top Des Moines news?Get a daily digest of the most important stories affecting your hometown with the Axios Des Moines newsletter.Want a daily digest of the top Twin Cities news?Get a daily digest of the most important stories affecting your hometown with Axios Twin CitiesWant a daily digest of the top Tampa Bay news?Get a daily digest of the most important stories affecting your hometown with the Axios Tampa Bay newsletter.Want a daily digest of the top Charlotte news?Get a daily digest of the most important stories affecting your hometown with Axios CharlotteWant a daily digest of the top Nashville news?Get a daily digest of the most important stories affecting your hometown with the Axios Nashville newsletter.Want a daily digest of the top Columbus news?Get a daily digest of the most important stories affecting your hometown with the Axios Columbus newsletter.Want a daily digest of the top Dallas news?Get a daily digest of the most important stories affecting your hometown with the Axios Dallas newsletter.Want a daily digest of the top Austin news?Get a daily digest of the most important stories affecting your hometown with the Axios Austin newsletter.Want a daily digest of the top Atlanta news?Get a daily digest of the most important stories affecting your hometown with the Axios Atlanta newsletter.Want a daily digest of the top Philadelphia news?Get a daily digest of the most important stories affecting your hometown with the Axios Philadelphia newsletter.Want a daily digest of the top Chicago news?Get a daily digest of the most important stories affecting your hometown with the Axios Chicago newsletter.Sign up for Axios NW ArkansasStay up-to-date on the most important and interesting stories affecting NW Arkansas, authored by local reportersWant a daily digest of the top DC news?Get a daily digest of the most important stories affecting your hometown with the Axios DC newsletter. Rep. Paul Gosar. Photo: Jonathan Ernst-Pool/Getty ImagesThe House on Wednesday voted to censure Rep. Paul Gosar (R-Ariz.) and strip him of his committee assignments for posting a video on Twitter that depicts him attacking President Biden and killing Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez (D-N.Y.).Why it matters: Gosar is the second House Republican to lose committee seats at the hands of the Democratic majority in the 117th Congress, which has been plagued by violence and inflammatory rhetoric both inside and outside the Capitol.The censure resolution, which passed 223-210, got little cross-party support.Reps. Adam Kinzinger (R-Ill.) and Liz Cheney (R-Wyo.) voted with Democrats to pass it and remove Gosar from the House Oversight and Natural Resources committees. Rep. David Joyce (R-Ohio) voted present. The big picture: Rep. Marjorie Taylor Greene (R-Ga.), who lost her committee seats for similarly incendiary comments, has openly mused about taking similar action against Democrats if her party seizes the House majority.Republicans whipped against the measure, citing Gosar's claims that he did not intend to glorify violence and the fact that members' committee assignments are typically determined by their party conferences."The dangerous standard, the real slippery slope, would be for Congress to do nothing here," Rep. Jim McGovern (D-Mass.) said in a floor speech. "We cannot allow the normalization of political violence in America."Worth noting: Gosar was forced to stand in the well of the House while the resolution was read out loud. "Depictions of violence can foment actual violence and jeopardize the safety of elected officials," it said in part.Ocasio-Cortez rebuked Gosar during an impassioned speech on the House floor before the vote: "What is so hard about saying that this is wrong?"Gosar during his floor speech said he "rejected the false narrative" that the cartoon was "dangerous or threatening." He described the video as "depicting a policy battle" regarding immigration.Gosar was flanked by well over a dozen fellow members of the right-wing Freedom Caucus as Pelosi, presiding over the chamber, read the resolution. "Tyranny," he yelled out before being silenced by Pelosi.