    Lois Lerner’s lawyer said she would invoke the Fifth Amendment. | John Shinkle/POLITICO Lois Lerner, the director of the scandal-plagued IRS division that oversees nonprofit groups, struck a defiant tone in her first public appearance since the agency acknowledged that it wrongly targeted conservative groups applying for a tax exemption.  “I have not done anything wrong,” she told the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee today. “I have not broken any laws. I have not violated any IRS rules or regulations, and I have not provided false information to this or any other committee.”  Lerner refused to answer additional questions from the committee and invoked her Fifth Amendment right not to incriminate herself. She sparked the scandal on May 10 when she told a Washington legal conference that the IRS inappropriately scrutinized nonprofit groups if they had ties to organizations like the tea party.  ( PHOTOS: Fifth Amendment use on the Hill)  Rep. Trey Gowdy (R-S.C.) tried to keep Lerner at the witness table by arguing that she waived her Fifth Amendment protection by giving an opening statement. Maryland Rep. Elijah Cummings, the top Democrat on the oversight committee, said she was still allowed to invoke the Fifth Amendment because she wasn’t speaking in a courtroom.  Rep. Darrell Issa, the California Republican who chairs the committee, tried to coax Lerner into staying by offering to narrow the scope of questions. When she refused, Issa told Lerner she could leave but is subject to being recalled as the hearing plays out.  Republicans were skeptical that Lerner had done nothing wrong. At a separate House hearing, Treasury Secretary Jack Lew was pressed on whether he agreed with Lerner.  ( Also on POLITICO: Witnesses gone wild)  “I’m going to wait until we have all the facts,” Lew told the House Financial Services Committee.  Lew told lawmakers he plans to meet with the new acting IRS Commissioner Daniel Werfel later today. Werfel is also slated to meet with Senate Finance Committee Chairman Max Baucus on Wednesday.  Issa said the new IRS chief will appear before his committee soon.  It was a dramatic morning as lawmakers aggressively probed the biggest public relations debacle to face the IRS in years.  House Oversight Committee members ramped up pressure on Inspector General J. Russell George to dig deeper into the IRS mess. Issa made clear he won’t drop the issue anytime soon. Members have a long list of interviews scheduled with people involved in the scandal.  ( PHOTOS: 8 key players in IRS scandal story)  The Obama administration used the hearing to defend itself from charges that senior staffers were aware that an inspector general would soon issue a report finding that the IRS wrongly targeted conservative groups.  Deputy Treasury Secretary Neal Wolin told the panel that although he was aware the IRS was being investigated, he knew nothing about the results of that review and didn’t interfere with the probe in any way. George “told me that he was conducting an audit, and I told him to follow the facts wherever they lead,” Wolin told the committee in prepared testimony. “When an inspector general tells us he is conducting a review, we step back and leave him to do his work. That is how the process functions. That is how the process should function.”  Wolin’s appearance on Capitol Hill marks the first time a senior administration official has testified about the IRS debacle since it came to light on May 10. He learned of the inspector general’s investigation in June 2012, but Treasury officials have said he was unaware of the details until the day the news broke.  Issa is known for his tough questioning of administration officials and opened the hearing by questioning White House characterizations of an arms-length relationship with the IRS. He noted that the IRS commissioner technically reports to the deputy Treasury secretary.  “He is a subordinate of a subordinate of a Cabinet officer,” Issa said. The IRS “is not an agency that gets to do what it wants to do or cannot be challenged by Treasury.” This is the third hearing on the IRS scandal since Friday.  Members of the committee focused closely on when George and former IRS Commissioner Doug Shulman became aware of the details of the misconduct and why no one in either agency kept Congress informed. The frustration was evident as Issa and George traded jabs. Issa said the IRS watchdog should have done a better job at keeping lawmakers abreast of what their investigation was revealing.  “It would be impractical to give you partial information which might not be accurate,” George responded. “It would be counterproductive, Sir, if we were to do that.”  Members grilled Shulman about his communication with the White House. Shulman repeatedly denied sharing information about the audit with any members of the administration in his more than 100 visits to the White House during the time the investigation was ongoing.  ”I am absolutely sure I didn’t talk to anyone,” Shulman said. “And it wouldn’t be appropriate, so I certainly believe I did not have those conversations.”  MJ Lee contributed to this report. 
