        Russian-American lobbyist Rinat Akhmetshin arriving at the Capitol for a closed door meeting with ... [+] the House Intelligence Committee November 13, 2017 to discuss the reasons for the infamous Trump Tower meet with Don Jr. (Photo by Alex Wong/Getty Images)    Getty Images   
Thursday night was the night when the House Intelligence Committee’s Russia investigation was finally released for the world to see. Those that have time reading through novel-length interview transcripts will find one clear thread — Hollywood Rep Adam Schiff had nothing on President Trump with regards to him or his campaign working in cahoots with Russia, or Russians, to beat Hillary Rodham Clinton in 2016.  
The release came after the Department of Justice and Director of National Intelligence threw many buckets of cold water on the Russia investigation last week. 
While many still disagree and continue believing that Trump colluded, there is no sense arguing anymore. The transcripts speak for themselves. 
To a person, no one had any evidence that Trump or his campaign colluded with the Russian government, or Russian individuals, to beat Hillary. 
If not for the coronavirus pandemic, these transcripts would be the biggest story in America right now.  I pined through 166 pages of testimony by Rinat Akhmetshin, a Russian-America lobbyist from Kazan city in Russia who was at the center of the infamous Trump Tower meeting with Donald Trump Jr., and was called out for being a Russian spy by the local and international press.  
The Guardian reported that a lawyer told them he was once a spy for the GRU, the new KGB.  
Here are some things I found interesting. The full transcript is below. Takeaways From 166 Pages: No Russian Spies          For three years, the U.S. was engulfed in a story about Trump and Russia collusion. All of it is now ... [+] coming to the fore. The Mueller report found no evidence of it. Crowdstrike admitted it had no hard evidence of Russian intercepts of DNC emails. (AP Photo/Craig Ruttle)    ASSOCIATED PRESS     
All told, the word “Russia” appears 201 times in the transcript. “Trump” appears 78 times. The interview was conducted in the morning on November 13, 2017. Representatives Mike Conaway (R-Tex), Ileana Ros-Lehtinen (R-Fla), Jim Himes (D-Conn), Andre Carson (D-Ind), Mike Quigley (D-Ill), and California Democrats Eric Swalwell and Schiff, who represents Hollywood and the Hollywood Hills — a constituency that was possibly more obsessed with the Russia story than Schiff himself. 
Rinat was a person of interest because of rumors, all of them spread by the media, that he was a Russian spy setting up a meeting with Donald Trump Jr. Rinat was another Russian connection, along with Natalia Veselnitskaya, who does not speak English, that got the meeting with Don Jr because Natalia claimed to have dirt on the Democratic National Committee. 
Come to find out, the “dirt on Hillary” was really a ploy to get the meeting, a meeting which focused on adoptions and lobbying against the Magnitsky Act. Rinat had no contact with any official Russians “in a decade”, he said. When asked if he thought Natalia was a spy for the Russian state, he said he didn’t know. MR. QUIGLEY: So did you ever serve with the GRU?         Donald Trump, Jr. was told by he could get some dirt on Democrats. He set up a meeting to hear more. ... [+] They had nothing. (Photo by MANDEL NGAN / AFP)     AFP via Getty Images   
MR. AKHMETSHIN: No, sir. 
MR. QUIGLEY: Any other Russian intelligence service? 
MR. AKHMETSHIN: No, sir. My active military service was between ages 18 and 20, and I really kind of was still a kid. 
MR. QUIGLEY: Any communication with any Russian intelligence service? 
MR. AKHMETSHIN: No, sir. 
MR. QUIGLEY: Any of their attempts to communicate with you? 
MR. AKHMETSHIN: No, sir. 
So Rinat was not the Russian spy at Trump Tower, despite CNN’s contributor at the time Michael Weiss and the Guardian, among others, insinuating he was. At best, he was guarding gates and delivering packages as a young Russian soldier. Adoptions & Bill Browder         Bill Browder. Rinat had a bone to pick with this man. Browder, an ex-hedge fund manager in Moscow, ... [+] has been successful at getting the ears of Republicans like the late John McCain. (AP Photo/Francisco Seco, File)    ASSOCIATED PRESS   
Rinat told Swalwell that he went to Trump Tower to represent a company that facilitates adoptions of Russian children. That had been banned by Russia in retaliation of the Magnitsky Act. 
The Magnitsky Act was the brain child of hedge fund manager Bill Browder, an expat who fled Russia when his firm came under scrutiny for tax fraud. 
Browder is a one man anti-Putin lobbying machine, and the author of the book “Red Dawn”, which details his plight with the Russian government in dramatic fashion. 
Anyone who has ever invested in Russia, or talked to an investment manager in Russia, knows Bill Browder. And everyone will tell you that he is not very well liked, for what that is worth. Rinat also didn’t like the guy, which would not come as a shocker to any close Russia watcher. Retelling the Magnitsky narrative was part of his agenda. MR. SWALWELL: What were some of the intermediate goals (of the Trump Tower meeting)? 
MR. AKHMETSHIN: First, to bring attention to U.S. Congress to the fact that original story of Mr. Magnitsky is a false story.... So one of the goals is just to expose that Mr. Browder is a liar. MR. SWALWELL: And it's fair to say this is also the belief of Russia's President, Vladimir Putin. Is that right? 
MR. AKHMETSHIN: I cannot speak for Mr. Putin, but it was definitely my belief, sir. 
As an aside, Putin does not believe Browder and would like him investigated. That is a fact. He’s probably not top-of-mind, however. Swalwell then tried to corner Rinat into saying the meeting was about removing Magnitsky related sanctions, something that Putin wanted. Rinat said he disagreed with Swalwell’s assessment. Natalia’s ‘Dirt on Hillary’         Russian lawyer Natalia Veselnitskaya. (AP Photo/Dmitry Serebryakov, File)    ASSOCIATED PRESS   
Rinat says he met Russian lawyer Natalia Veselnitskaya first In New York, then again in Russia in 2016 at the Ritz Carlton in Red Square. The topic was his client, the Hragi Foundation, the one working with orphans. 
MR. CONAWAY: So, getting back to the meeting at Trump Tower, Donald Jr., it has been reported in the public media that one of the triggers for — one of the incentives for getting the meeting was that Natalia, her group, you, others, would provide the Trump campaign with opposition research on Hillary Clinton. Were you aware of that? 
MR. AKHMETSHIN: I'm not aware of that, sir. 
MR. CONAWAY: You're not aware that that was the meeting, or you're not aware of the public reporting after that? 
MR. AKHMETSHIN: I — no, no, I read news stories. Sadly, it was in many of them. I did not do any research, opposition research on Hillary Clinton or anyone else from the campaign. ...It was not about repealing sanctions, as it's continuously being reported by the media. 
Donald Trump Jr. was told by meeting organizers that they had dirt on Hillary Clinton. The “dirt” really stemmed from Ziff Brothers Investments. Natalia told Don Jr that the Ziff Brothers had some sort of connection with the Democrats and Hillary Clinton. Apparently, the Ziff Brothers had done some illegal things, and money made its way into DNC funding. 
He said he didn’t see this hook as being dirt about Hillary. From Rinat: Natalia “went in there and presented this story of Ziff Brothers. And then she said, and now — you know, she is a very emotional person. And now this money ended up here in New York, and then — now it's in DNC. And Trump Jr. said, ‘so where does it go, could you show me?’ She said, ‘hell, how do I know? I am just a Russian lawyer. I could tell you this is a bank. I've heard it's either Citi or Chase Bank in 53rd Street in Manhattan. That's where the money ended up.’ And he said, ‘so — and where does it go?’ Don Jr. said, ‘where does it go to Hillary?’ She said, ‘hell, I don't know. You have to do these things. I told you that this is where, and you research these things’.” At that point Don Jr. loses interest in the meeting. And she then went on about adoptions. “I don't think she wanted to talk about Hillary Clinton,” Rinat told the Congressional investigators. “She went there to talk about Ziff Brothers and just offer them this whole thing about DNC. 
It was a British pop music manager and publicist, Rob Goldstone, who had something with getting Don Jr. into the meeting. 
Quigley asks him “Why did Goldstone tell Trump Jr. that the meeting was going to be about sharing negative information on Hillary if the purpose is to share information on Ziff Brothers?” To which Rinat replies, “I have no idea, sir.” In other words, this interview was going nowhere. Schiff’s ‘Steele Dossier’         Rep. Adam Schiff continues to say the transcripts prove Trump and Russia were in cahoots. Robert ... [+] Mueller and the U.S. Senate disagreed. So did nearly every person he interviewed. (AP Photo/Julio Cortez)    ASSOCIATED PRESS   
The Republicans were mostly curious about Rinat’s friendship with Glenn Simpson of Fusion GPS and Republican congressman Dana Rohrbacher, also labeled a Putin puppet. He said Simpson knew the Russian lawyer, but that didn’t amount to much judging by the Rinat transcript. They also asked him if he knew DNC leader at the time Debbie Wasserman-Schultz, Hillary campaign chief John Podesta and whether in meetings with Rohrbacher did the subject of Mike Flynn ever come up. He didn’t know the Democrats and he didn’t recall any connection to or mention of Mike Flynn. Rohrbacher was also a target during the Russian investigation, possibly leading to his losing his seat in the midterm elections of 2018. Rinat said that he had met Rohrbacher in Moscow, but they never spoke about the election, about Hillary, or about Trump. When asked if he was ever an unnamed source for the press, he said no. 
Schiff and Swalwell seemed to work hand in hand in trying to tie the Magnitsky Act to support for the Russian government, which would have surely made it look like Rinat and Natalia where there on official business as any sanctions removal would benefit those Russian individuals banned access to U.S. banks and travel to the U.S. 
MR. SCHIFF: The only connection between any of this and adoptions is that after the Congress passed the Magnitsky Act, Putin retaliated by cutting off the adoptions by Americans of Russian children, correct? 
MR. AKHMETSHIN: Correct. It was cowardly act. I personally find it disgusting. 
MR. SCHIFF: And so, when you say you're working to facilitate the reinstatement of American adoptions, it's really working to repeal the Magnitsky Act, is it not? 
MR. AKHMETSHIN: No, sir.         Rinat Akhmetshin has been in the DC lobbying business for years. He knows reporters. He knows ... [+] Russia. But he's not in cahoots with the Russian government. (Photo by Alex Wong/Getty Images)    Getty Images   
Schiff then tried to get him to fess up to either once being a spy, or knowing spies, suggesting he could have been a compromised, off the reservation asset for the Russian GRU. He brought up articles in the Financial Times and elsewhere where Rinat had alluded to such things. MR. AKHMETSHIN: I have had drinks with someone I suspected to be a Russian intelligence officer who often tease me in those words that I'm a mercenary. And they would never trust me. I lived in this country for such a long time. To be involved in just this whole spy thing is — I think is just invention. 
MR. SCHIFF: Did you ever tell Steve Levine, an editor for Axios, that you were an officer in the Soviet GRU? 
MR. AKHMETSHIN: Never. 
MR. SCHIFF: So if Mr. Levine was quoted as saying that you, quote, "openly described his meeting, your years as an officer in the Soviet GRU, the military intelligence arm, serving in Afghanistan," that would be a false statement by Mr. Levine? 
MR. AKHMETSHIN: It was an inaccurate statement by Mr. Levine, which he later adjusted, and he has published recently an article where he addressed that...there is zero accuracy to this reporting. And it is very hurtful and unfortunate. Rinat suggested that because of his work on the Magnitsky Act, Browder — using his ties in Washington — had smeared him as a Russian asset in order to cast doubt on his view about that Act. Browder has enjoyed high level access to U.S. Senate members, including the late John McCain, who was an early believer in the now infamous “Steele Dossier.” He was also asked about that dossier, a report paid for buy a law firm hired by Democrats to smear Trump. An ex-British intelligence officer named Christopher Steele wrote it. That report was later used to create an independent counsel, led by Robert Mueller, to investigate Trump’s alleged ties to Russians for over two years. 
Rinat said he scanned the document when it was released in the media. He told his interviewers that he was surprised that Fusion GPS had a role in it. He said the report was “rubbish” and that it was “highly unlikely these leaks from Russian Security Council will ever happen because it’s just impossible.”         Glenn Simpson of Fusion GPS. Fusion is connected to the infamous Steele Dossier that led to the ... [+] Mueller investigation. (AP Photo/Pablo Martinez Monsivais)    ASSOCIATED PRESS   
Rinat was asked in some of the final minutes of his five hour interview if he was aware or had any information that then-candidate Donald Trump and his campaign colluded with the Russian government “to rig the election, for lack of a better word?” He said, “I'm not aware of any of this information.” He was asked again by the same unnamed questioner doing follow ups if he was aware of any information or evidence that any employees, officially or unofficially, of Donald Trump himself worked with the Russian government or Russian officials during the campaign, and he said he was not aware of anything like that. 
The entire Trump Tower meeting lasted around 20 minutes. Rinat describes Natalia as leaving the meeting looking “kind of dejected”. He doesn’t recall any exchange of documents, no opposition research on Ziff Brothers Investments and their bank statements. 
There was no dirt on Hillary Clinton. 
In the summer of 2017, when the Russia investigation was heating up and the same people who are now quoted under oath to having no evidence of collusion were on TV every night saying the exact opposite, Rinat thought it was best to get ahead of the story and disclose their meeting. 
He said he wanted to make it clear that it was “not something sinister and, you know, this KGB guy came and then they directed Trump to run his campaign. That's ridiculous,” he says. “But, unfortunately, that's how it ended.” All transcripts can be found in full here. HouseRussia Investigation Transcripts and Documents