        Officers stand at a memorial service for San Diego Officer Jeremy Henwood, killed in 2011 by a ... [+] suicidal man.    Getty   
The call came in on Thursday around noon. A woman called 911 from a neighbor’s house saying her husband was threatening to kill her. Odgen, Utah, Officer Nate Lyday and an officer from Adult Probation and Parole who was in the area responded to the address. They found the 53-year-old suspect on his front porch. He refused to cooperate, retreated into the house and slammed the door.  The officers apparently never saw a gun, but as they rushed to follow the man, he fired through the door. The parole officer was struck and injured. Lyday, Badge 1069, was killed. A second-generation officer, the 24-year-old had been with the department just 15 months. He and his wife were preparing to celebrate her graduation from Weber State University. “He was very prideful to be a police officer. This is a great city. He loved the citizens of the city,” said Ogden Police Lt. Brian Eynon. “He loved coming to work. I would bump into him in the hallway daily on his shift, and he smiled before I smiled. And that’s what I remember.”  “He’s a hero,” said the lieutenant.  Lyday’s ultimate sacrifice in the line of duty does nothing to balance the scales for the death in Minneapolis four days earlier of George Floyd over a report of a counterfeit $20 bill, the tragedy – and now alleged third-degree murder and manslaughter – that sparked protests throughout the country. Nothing in the death of any officer while protecting the public compensates for law enforcement misconduct or wrongful use of deadly force.  There are few acts as heroic as dying to save someone else; few acts as reprehensible as bringing unjustified harm to someone under color of law. The public has the right to expect the former of its police and to be protected against the latter.  It bears appreciating – as much as weighty questions must again be raised about police culture, leadership and integrity – that among the ranks are hundreds of thousands of honorable men and women. The future of policing depends not just on responding to the concerns of the minority communities and further reforms to the way departments are led and run, but also relying on the best officers within each force to ensure change on paper translates into what happens on the street. That begins by recognizing good cops are on duty and that their jobs got substantially tougher last week.   I began my journalism career covering “cops and courts,” first in Ogden and later in Salt Lake City. As an independent but briefly naïve observer, several aspects of the job struck me. It’s not glamorous. The shift work can be exhausting. The pay is okay, but you can make more elsewhere with a lot less stress, sleep deprivation and danger. There is exceptional camaraderie, but with pressure that you don’t break ranks, even when you witness abuse. It’s sometimes boring, like standing for hours directing traffic. And then, without warning, all hell can break loose. The lieutenant in charge of Ogden homicide and robbery detectives told me one afternoon while we were sweating profusely in a van outside a bank that, based on a tip, was going to be robbed, “This job is days and weeks of monotony, punctuated by moments of sheer (expletive) terror.” It’s not a thankless job; roughly eight in 10 officers said in an in-depth 2017 Pew Research Center study they had been thanked by a member of the public in the previous month. But the uniform is also a magnet for anger; two-thirds reported being verbally berated on the job. Some may have deserved it; many undoubtedly did not. Perhaps most profound, police work is composed of shift after shift after shift of going to the worst events that will happen that day or night in your city and trying to address them. A teenager speeds around a turn in the canyon and rolls his car, ejecting and killing himself and his girlfriend. You’re going. A guy shoots himself in the chest. You’re going to back up the paramedics, watch him take his last breath and write the report. A drunk man is passed out in the park. Going. Report of child sexual abuse. Going. Family’s home is burning. Going to run traffic for the fire department. Toddler falls into a pool when no one is looking and drowns. Going. Husband is threatening to kill his wife. Going. Through it all, an officer is expected to preserve – indeed, above all else, must preserve – her or his humanity. That’s not easy. Fifty-six percent of the officers in the Pew Research study said they had become more callous since taking the job. I recall sitting outside the Ogden municipal building with an officer about the age of Lyday. We were talking off-the-record in his patrol vehicle. He’d been a cop just a few years. He was happily married and had a good support system, he said, and he felt fortunate because he needed that support. Nothing had prepared him for the suffering he was seeing. The job was messing with him. I noticed veteran officers developed a certain unshakable cynicism about things. They were sometimes serious to a fault. They seemed not to be able to turn it off, maybe because they were conditioned that the minute they let their guard down, something bad happens. Many of the people protesting say they feel that way. None of this is an excuse for police treating people differently based on their race or their neighborhood, or for failing to follow the procedures every officer is taught in order to restrain and arrest suspects with minimal injury. In fact, it seemed to me that the good cops went even more by the book when the pressure was on – that as much as they might want to lash out at times, they restrained themselves, because that’s the job. Or it’s supposed to be anyway. Last week the orders in major cities throughout the United States were to don riot gear, get into formation and try to stop shops from being destroyed, buildings being burned or people getting hurt or killed. And to face protestors, some of whom hate the police – all police – because of the troubled state of the profession. That it goes with the territory doesn’t make it any less rough on the good cops. “The 480,00 cops that are not getting in trouble are stuck in the middle and the millions of citizens are stuck in the middle,” Loyola University criminology professor Dr. Ronal Serpas, former head of three large police agencies, said during a Thursday interview on Minnesota Public Radio. “The bad apples are not unique to policing,” he said. “Every profession on earth has some group of people who are bad apples in their profession – lawyers, doctors, dentists, nurses. Police exercise a power that those people don’t. You can pick your lawyer or your doctor. You don’t get to pick your cop. So police officers have to be held to a higher standard than other professions.” The proportion of good to bad cops is a matter of debate, but no reliable numbers. A friend and former colleague of mine who stayed on the police beat says it seems to be increasingly difficult to find the good ones. I believe their numbers are substantial enough that if given more support to clean up the profession and make it more of what they hoped they were signing on for, they would step forward. Regardless of their numbers, once the fires are put out and the National Guard is ordered to stand down, the good cops are going to be an integral part of the eventual solution. There was a rally in Ogden on Saturday afternoon. Before it was held, organizer Malik Dayo wrote on the Facebook page for it that he contacted the police department. “I prefaced the conversation with giving condolences to our fallen officer here in Ogden,” he wrote. “I assured him that this rally is not about them and we are all mourning together. I promised them this would be a peaceful rally done with love. They assured me that if there are any officers present, they are there to protect our right to assemble and exercise our freedom of speech. Let's make sure we show 100% respect to these officers today.” The rally was large. Everyone took a knee in remembrance of George Floyd on the lawn in front of the municipal building where the pole has its flag at half-staff in honor of Officer Lyday. The rally was peaceful. “I want to set the tone,” Dayo announced to the crowd. “This is a peaceful protest. . . . This is not an anti-cop rally. This is a solidarity rally. This is a rally for police reform.” The terrible event in Minneapolis was a spark that ignited renewed agony. Perhaps the kind of resolute and civil expressions seen in Ogden can channel those reactions toward meaningful change. 