                                                 The Washington Times - January 5, 2013, 11:40AM                                                               	A Marine’s defiant response to California Sen. Dianne Feinstein’s proposal to tighten gun control in the wake of the Newtown school shooting has gone viral on the Internet.                                                          An open letter from U.S. Marine Cpl. Joshua Brown, first posted on CNN last week, is trending on Facebook and Twitter and creating buzz on both left-leaning and conservative websites — from the Huffington Post to The Blaze.                                                       SEE RELATED:                                                             The letter, titled “No ma’am” is addressed directly to the California Democrat:                                                          
Senator Dianne Feinstein,
I will not register my weapons should this bill be passed, as I do not believe it is the government’s right to know what I own. Nor do I think it prudent to tell you what I own so that it may be taken from me by a group of people who enjoy armed protection yet decry me having the same a crime. You ma’am have overstepped a line that is not your domain. I am a Marine Corps veteran of 8 years, and I will not have some woman who proclaims the evil of an inanimate object, yet carries one, tell me I may not have one.
I am not your subject. I am the man who keeps you free. I am not your servant. I am the person whom you serve. I am not your peasant. I am the flesh and blood of America.
I am the man who fought for my country. I am the man who learned. I am an American. You will not tell me that I must register my semi-automatic AR-15 because of the actions of some evil man.
I will not be disarmed to suit the fear that has been established by the media and your misinformation campaign against the American public.
We, the people, deserve better than you.
Respectfully Submitted,Joshua Boston Cpl,United States Marine Corps2004-2012                                                                                                                     