NEWYou can now listen to Fox News articles!  Governors, former Vice Presidential nominees -- just about everybody has an opinion about the "Duck Dynasty" brouhaha.Sarah Palin was one of many of the show's fans to take to social media after news hit that Phil Robertson had been indefinitely suspended by A&E following his controversial statements about homosexuality in an interview with GQ Magazine.Palin went on Facebook to voice her reaction, charging that the suspension is an attack on freedom of speech.“Free speech is an endangered species,” she wrote, alongside a photo of herself with the cast of the show. “Those ‘intolerants’ hatin’ and taking on the Duck Dynasty patriarch for voicing his personal opinion are taking on all of us.”Louisiana Gov. Bobby Jindal also voiced support for his embattled constituents.“Phil Robertson and his family are great citizens of the State of Louisiana. The politically correct crowd is tolerant of all viewpoints, except those they disagree with. I don’t agree with quite a bit of stuff I read in magazine interviews or see on TV," Jindal said in a statement. "In fact, come to think of it, I find a good bit of it offensive. But I also acknowledge that this is a free country and everyone is entitled to express their views. In fact, I remember when TV networks believed in the First Amendment. It is a messed up situation when Miley Cyrus gets a laugh, and Phil Robertson gets suspended."Many fans of the series took to Twitter to voice similar thoughts.Meanwhile other social media users expressed relief that A&E took action to quiet the outspoken star.The gay and lesbian rights group GLAAD also praised A&E for their swift reaction to Robertson's comments.“What’s clear is that such hateful anti-gay comments are unacceptable to fans, viewers, and networks alike,” said GLAAD spokesperson Wilson Cruz. “By taking quick action and removing Robertson from future filming, A&E has sent a strong message that discrimination is neither a Christian nor an American value."The slew of Twitter reactions made Phil Robertson a trending topic on Wednesday and Thursday. The hashtag #IStandWithPhil gained popularity after A&E released a statement about Robertson's suspension. "We are extremely disappointed to have read Phil Robertson's comments in GQ, which are based on his own personal beliefs and are not reflected in the series Duck Dynasty," the network said in a statement. "His personal views in no way reflect those of A&E Networks, who have always been strong supporters and champions of the LGBT community. The network has placed Phil under hiatus from filming indefinitely." Earlier Wednesday, Roberston responded to his critics in an attempt to further explain his controversial statements. “I myself am a product of the 60s; I centered my life around sex, drugs and rock and roll until I hit rock bottom and accepted Jesus as my Savior,” he said in a statement sent to FOX411. “My mission today is to go forth and tell people about why I follow Christ and also what the bible teaches, and part of that teaching is that women and men are meant to be together…” Robertson referenced the Bible when talking to GQ about his thoughts about homosexuality and sinning. “Everything is blurred on what’s right and what’s wrong... Sin becomes fine,” he said. “Start with homosexual behavior and just morph out from there. Bestiality, sleeping around with this woman and that woman and that woman and those men.”Robertson may appear in some previously taped scenes when "Duck Dynasty" returns Jan. 15 for its fifth season, a network rep said. 