The capital city of Lebanon experienced a massive explosion Tuesday afternoon, according to preliminary media reports. Videos of the explosion in Beirut have been circulating online, and some of the videos show a ring moving away from the site while a large plume of orange-tinged smoke subsequently erupts into the air. Another view of the explosions in Beirut pic.twitter.com/efT5VlpMkj— Borzou Daragahi (@borzou) August 4, 2020Another video from the sea #Lebanon pic.twitter.com/1fM51dQNFl— Abir Ghattas (@AbirGhattas) August 4, 2020According to The Associated Press, the massive explosion appears to have occurred near the sea port, which connects the capital city to the Mediterranean Sea. Videos circulating from purportedly after the blast show destruction in the city, although it is not clear how close these videos were taken in proximity to the site of the explosion. The souks in downtown Beirut- an upscale shopping area. Totally wrecked. pic.twitter.com/AqIOJLzNTO— DavidKenner (@DavidKenner) August 4, 2020This is shocking, and not even close to the last site. https://t.co/DJ9xPnqDuu— DavidKenner (@DavidKenner) August 4, 2020According to The New York Times, the explosion flipped over cars and has caused numerous injuries, and at “least one hospital was overwhelmed and was turning wounded people away.” Sky News reports that at least 10 people have died, citing Lebanese officials.“The sounds of sirens of the fire brigade, ambulances, the police and also the military has been pretty incessant for the last 45 minutes and a huge number of emergency services and security forces are rushing to that area now,” said Zein Ja’far, an editor for Sky News who was downtown.“Some buildings as far as 2km are partially collapsed,” Fady Roumieh, a local resident, told Sky News. “It’s like a war zone. The damage is extreme. Not one glass window intact.”Alyssa Farah, the White House director of strategic communications, has since said that the president has been briefed on the situation.“Praying for the safety of the people of Lebanon. The President has been briefed. We continue to monitor the situation closely,” said Farah.Praying for the safety of the people of Lebanon. The President has been briefed. We continue to monitor the situation closely.— Alyssa Farah (@Alyssafarah) August 4, 2020The cause of the explosion has not been determined.Abby Sewell, a freelance reporter formerly with The Los Angeles Times, said a source in the Lebanese Army believed the explosion could have been caused by a fireworks fire that spread “to reach a nitrate warehouse.”Lebanese Army source just told me no cause confirmed yet for explosions in Beirut but possibly a “container of fireworks was burning and the fire spread to reach a nitrate warehouse that led to this massive explosions.”— Abby Sewell (@sewella) August 4, 2020The Daily Wire is one of America’s fastest-growing conservative media companies and counter-cultural outlets for news, opinion, and entertainment. Get inside access to The Daily Wire by becoming a member.