
If you’ve ever made the mistake of signing up for campaign emails from Democrats, if only out of morbid curiosity, you are inundated with requests for money from every candidate and cause under the Sun. In an odd way, it’s amusing to get an email from Eric Holder’s group hyperventilating about Republican gerrymandering while ignoring states like Maryland (where I live) where the former Democratic governor admitted they drew the lines to eliminate as many Republican members of Congress as possible (they got two of three with a map that looks like someone sneezed on a wet Rorschach test) to Bernie Sanders’ organization extolling the virtues of socialism while begging for cash. They all have their own niches and pet causes, but lately emails from these groups have all hit on one specific issue – “saving the post office.”They aren’t raising money for the post office, they’re raising money for their various campaigns off the post office. But why are so many groups – from the Biden campaign to “Our Revolution” – trying to scare people about the post office going away? Because Democrats are trying their best to freak out their fellow liberals that somehow President Trump is going to steal the election via delayed mail.Former Attorney General Holder’s DNC front group, “All on the Line,” hyperventilated that “the president declared that he would block funding for the USPS. CNN reported that Trump went as far as calling the Postal Service ‘a joke.’ The possible collapse of America's most widely used public service is nothing to laugh at – it's serious and threatens fair, safe elections this November.”Well, the post office is a joke. It’s been run so poorly for decades that it requires regular federal bailouts. Liz Sheld at American Greatness points out, “The USPS has lost a staggering $78 billion since 2007 which suggests there are serious structural problems with the USPS business model.” Now that’s a joke, it’s just not a funny one because we’ve all been forced to pick up the tab.    The National Democratic Redistricting Committee’s email claimed, “First a public health crisis made vote-by-mail a necessity in 2020. Then Trump repeatedly railed against mail-in ballots... And put in place his new Postmaster General, a top donor. Now we're hearing that this Postmaster General is ordering mail delivery to be slowed down – just in time for the election!” Cue dramatic chipmunk music.Just this week, the Biden campaign sent out an email with the subject line, “Sorry to bother you, but this is important.” What was so important? The post office, of course.The email stated, “the Trump administration continues to threaten the USPS at every turn. We know we have a winning message at the ballot box, and we’re fighting tooth and nail to protect our democracy. That means protecting our post offices, too.”The fate of our democracy hinges on the fate of the post office? We’re screwed!What’s really behind all this? The Democrats’ plan to stuff the ballot box via stuffing the mailbox.Voter fraud by mail is almost easier than voting on behalf of someone who died years ago whose name Democrats refuse to remove from the voter rolls. Of course, if you can do both by using a prepaid envelope, you even save on postage!It doesn’t hurt that on June 9 the executive board of the postal union endorsed Joe Biden, writing in their statement, “Joe Biden has committed to support the Postal Service and its dedicated postal workers. Our union will continue to help build the movement to defend the public Postal Service and win a more just society.” And who doesn’t want a “more just society” delivered with their monthly bills, and who wouldn’t trust their ballot in the hands of someone being told their job’s very existence depends on Democrats winning?American Greatness reports, “now the USPS is asking for $25 billion” in additional bailouts in the next round of coronavirus “relief.” Democrats are going to the mattresses for their supporters with our money.If this seems like simple opportunism – Democrats jumping on a bandwagon that just so happens to benefit a union supporting them at a time of pandemic when liberals are pushing to force voting by mail on everyone – I can see why you’d think that. There’s one problem with that, however. On January 5, the Biden campaign sent out their first email on the post office, long before anyone had heard of COVID-19.  
“The U.S. Postal Service is an important part of American life. It’s America’s most popular federal government agency. But Donald Trump is trying to destroy it!” the email screamed. In a desperate call to action, the email concluded, “we need to take action now to protect the Postal Service.”There’s no way the Biden campaign could have known they’d be pushing for voting by mail in January, but they did know the union leadership would be on their side. That liberal cronyism just happened to dovetail perfectly with the liberal election agenda is just a coincidence, I’m sure, but Democrats never let a good crisis go to waste. Our tax dollars, on the other hand, they’re happy to waste, especially on their supporters.As my friend Liz concluded, “No other business would run the way the USPS does in a free market environment because it would go out of business without a billion-dollar taxpayer parachute.” If Democrats win, it may well be with a heavy lift from the post office. That favor will be returned with never-ending bailouts. Derek Hunter is the host of a free daily podcast (subscribe!), host of a daily radio show on WCBM in Maryland, and author of the book, Outrage, INC., which exposes how liberals use fear and hatred to manipulate the masses. Follow him on Twitter at @DerekAHunter and on Parler at @DerekHunter.
