      	Hours of audio recordings from grand-jury proceedings in the Breonna Taylor case were made public Friday, giving a rare glimpse into what the Kentucky panel heard before it returned no indictments against cops for her killing.
One of the officers who shot Taylor described in recorded testimony the chaotic scene he found himself in when he walked into the apartment. The cop, Detective Myles Cosgrove, said he saw a barrage of flashing lights and that he was “overwhelmed” with bright flashes and darkness.
He added that he saw a shadowy figure appear in the apartment but couldn’t decipher what it was because of the flashing lights. “I see this distorted, shadowy mass, this figure in front of me that is coming and going due to the flashing light. This is all happening, again, in seconds,” he said. Despite his distorted vision, Cosgrove said, he fired his gun in those chaotic moments in the Louisville apartment. “I know, or I’m fairly positive … I’d fired or [was] firing during those flashes,” he said. A judge had originally ordered the recordings to be released Wednesday but then granted Kentucky’s attorney general a two-day delay to edit out the personal information of witnesses in the case.
The grand jury indicted one of the officers involved in the botched drug raid in Louisville that led to Taylor’s death — but only for wanton endangerment for shooting into her neighbor’s apartment.
That officer, Brett Hankison, has pleaded not guilty. The other two cops who could have potentially faced charges were not indicted.
Among other evidence the grand jury heard was a statement from police Sgt. Jon Mattingly, who said in the recorded testimony that the cops knocked repeatedly on Taylor’s door and announced themselves as police officers before barging into the apartment.
“I knocked on the door, banged on it,” Mattingly, who was wounded during the raid, said. “Our intent was not to hit the door. Our intent was to give her plenty of time to come to the door because she’s probably there alone.”
He added that while they were knocking on the door, a neighbor heard the commotion and got into an argument with one of the cops, telling them to “leave that girl alone.”
Attorney General Daniel Cameron has said he did not recommend the grand jury indict the police officers for homicide for Taylor’s killing.
The officers, who had a no-knock warrant, killed Taylor after entering her Louisville apartment and exchanging gunfire with her boyfriend. Taylor’s boyfriend has said he believed he was firing at intruders breaking into the apartment — not police officers.
Police were looking for drugs in the apartment during the raid, but none were recovered.
Taylor’s killing touched off a wave of anti-police brutality protests in Louisville and across the country. After the grand jury did not indict any of the officers for her killing, two cops were shot at a protest in the city last week.
With Post Wires   	