I have a great lead-in for my radio show today on most of my stations, including WRKO.
Donald J. Trump.
Everybody needs guest hosts occasionally. And sometimes, when you’re breaking in a replacement, you wonder if he’s going to be up to the task of carrying a show for three or four hours, hitting the hard breaks, taking just enough callers but not too many, etc.
But Rush Limbaugh’s got nothing to worry about today. President Trump doesn’t even need to take a call. He could talk a dog off a meat wagon.
It was still unclear Thursday just exactly how the “virtual rally,” as Rush called it, is going to work. Will Trump be hosting or co-hosting with Limbaugh at noon? Will POTUS be on for the whole three hours? Will he have any guests (say, Vice President Mike Pence, himself a former Indiana radio talk-show host)?
However it plays out, this is a perfect time for Trump to try his hand at a new kind of campaign rally. The debate commission Thursday was trying to sabotage next week’s second presidential event by making it virtual, that is, making it easier for Joe Biden to read from a teleprompter, take directions in his earpiece and so on.
“They’re trying to protect Biden,” Trump correctly pointed out.
Of course the Democrat stenographers with press passes will say the Trump Show at noon on 500-plus radio stations is not on the level, but hey, they’ve been saying that for years. Look at who’s been moderating these recent debates. Was Chris Wallace a disinterested scribe? Please.
Then Wednesday night’s vice presidential debate was hosted by a woman, Susan Page, who’s writing a biography of Nancy Pelosi. Another nationwide search, in other words.
You can’t make this stuff up.
And next week’s debate, which is now in limbo since the Democrats threw Dementia Joe a Zoom life preserver, had been scheduled to be hosted by a rabid anti-Trumper who in college was an intern for Biden, after which he went to work for Teddy Kennedy.
Another very impartial “journalist,” in other words.
So the Miami “town hall” was going to be another Democrat pile-on, like all the others. Which is okay — if all these networks want to run these Biden infomercials with “undecided” voters who are in fact Democrats infected with Trump Derangement Syndrome, that’s their prerogative.
Just don’t pretend that any of it is on the level.
So Wednesday night it was more of the same, Page alternating between Democrat softball talking points for Harris — climate change, abortion, will Trump leave office peacefully? — with essentially the same question over and over again for the vice president:
“When did you stop beating your wife?”
Harris was allowed to keep lying, with no pushback from her fellow Democrat, the moderator. It occurred to me that if you really wanted to keep these Democrats honest, the commission should bring back the old New York TV sportscaster, Warner Wolf.
His trademark line was yelling, “Let’s go to the videotape!”
Warner would have been great Wednesday night, like when Kamala said she’d never called for banning fracking … let’s go to the videotape!
When she said Biden hadn’t called for raising taxes on everybody on day one … let’s go to the videotape!
When she lied about the “very fine people on both sides” in Charlottesville … let’s go to the videotape!
When she lied about Trump saying the virus was a “hoax” … let’s go to the videotape!
When she lied about “Honest Abe” and the Supreme Court in 1864, well, I guess you can’t go to the videotape on that one, but where are the “fact checkers” and their Pinocchio grades?
Not only did Susan Page not call out Harris for lying, she asked her zero tough questions. Nothing about packing SCOTUS — Pence had to bring it up. Ditto, Obamagate and the corrupt FBI’s attempted soft coup against the president.
At one point Harris said she and Dementia Joe are planning to end cash bail. Isn’t there a rather obvious follow up question — how’s that working out for New York state? (Not that they could do it anyway, thank goodness.)
Susan Page couldn’t be bothered with that follow up. Maybe she’s still putting the finishing touches on her hagiography about Madame Speaker, of whom she said when she got the book contract:
“She is fundamentally misunderstood by many in the public.”
Earlier this week, Pelosi said of Trump, “The president has always had erotic behavior.”
Did we misunderstand her, Susan, or was she just having a Biden moment?
Maybe President Trump can address some of these matters today on Rush’s radio show. Thursday, in a call-in to Fox Business, he warmed up by calling Kamala a “Communist.”
Today, I’d love to hear POTUS say, “You know, I’m starting to feel sorry for Willie Brown.”
