                 (Leah Millis/Reuters)                     Upcoming presidential debate host Steve Scully drew attention for a deleted tweet — possibly intended as a direct message — to outspoken anti-Trump figure Anthony Scaramucci asking whether he should “respond” to criticism directed his way by President Trump.
“@Scaramucci should I respond to trump,” Scully tweeted.
https://twitter.com/SVNewsAlerts/status/1314395792145371146
Scaramucci, who lasted only 11 days as White House communications director in 2018, responded: “Ignore. He is having a hard enough time. Some more bad stuff about to go down.” Scully later deleted the tweet. While C-SPAN did not return a request for comment on what Scully, billed as an impartial journalist, was referencing, the post came after Trump told Fox News’s Sean Hannity in a Thursday night interview that Scully is a “never-Trumper, and I think somebody said he worked for Biden at one point.” Scully interned in Biden’s office in the 1970s.
“These are the people we get, and that’s OK because I’ve had some bad ones over the years and I’ve got an unblemished record I think in the debating world,” Trump continued. “But I will say this, that it is a very sad thing. Now you have, this debate commission’s a joke. The commission’s a joke.”       Following Scully’s tweet, White House deputy communications director Brian Morgenstern told Fox News that Scully “certainly seems not to be very impartial.”
“I love The Mooche, but he’s gone way off the deep end,” Moregenstern said. “He is a wild-eyed critic of the president at this point. And now to have a debate moderator seeking his advice. I think the cat’s out of the bag. I don’t think Mr. Scully is impartial. So that really calls into question, again, the debate commission’s judgment here.”
Following his short stint as White House communications director, Scaramucci began harshly criticizing the president during frequent appearances on cable news and even called for his impeachment.
Scully’s town hall, set for next week, is in limbo after President Trump said he would not participate following an announcement from the Commission on Presidential Debates that “candidates would participate from separate remote locations.”
On Friday, CPD Co-Chair Frank Fahrenkopf told Fox News that Scully’s account “was hacked.”
CPD Co-Chair Frank Fahrenkopf tells @kilmeade on "The Brian Kilmeade Show" in regards to @SteveScully tweet to @Scaramucci: "He was hacked, it didn't happen."
— Pat Ward (@WardDPatrick) October 9, 2020 CSPAN then released a public statement backing up Fahrenkopf’s claim.
pic.twitter.com/yFtFn0FSZp
— CSPAN (@cspan) October 9, 2020 Send a tip to the news team at NR.             	Recommended          	RNC Should Take a Lesson from Mike Pence     The RNC censure resolution was morally repellent, while the former vice president took a stand for the truth.              	NBC's 'Cataclysmic' Olympics-Coverage Flop     How can anyone feel good about these Olympics?              	Nikole Hannah-Jones Responds to Our 1619 and Slavery Issue     She reacted with a lot of sneering and ad hominem argumentation and nothing of substance.              	Joe Biden Doesn’t Know What You’re Talking About     To watch Biden at the lectern was to experience shock and dismay interspersed with moments of alarm and dark humor. No wonder he hides from the media.              	Why Were Authorities So Evasive About the Synagogue Gunman's Motive?     Why were President Biden and the FBI so reluctant to say that the synagogue gunman was motivated by antisemitism and jihadism?              	The Afghanistan Debacle Looks Worse and Worse     The more we learn about the administration’s withdrawal, the more it becomes clear that its decisions were driven by political considerations and panic.    The Latest          	Maskless Super Bowl Marks Our Return to Normalcy     This collective moment was a warning to the Covid regime that its strictures won’t stand much longer.              	Russian Figure-Skating Prodigy Will Compete at Olympics Despite Failed Drug Test     The IOC has decided it will not hold a medal ceremony for any event in which Valieva places in the top three while the matter remains under investigation.                      The IRS Wants Your Picture     The agency’s plans for facial recognition might be abandoned for now, but its lust for data is never satiated.              	Why America’s Government-Debt Problem Endures     Any meaningful change requires enough Americans deciding that they really do want less government in their lives, and then acting accordingly.              	‘Blame America first,’ &c.     On Jeane Kirkpatrick, today’s Russia debate, Edward Snowden, Ukraine’s right to exist, and more.    