           More than half of all Americans are planning as winter approaches to replenish stockpiles of goods they originally hoarded at the outbreak of the novel coronavirus, while nearly as many plan to have a supply on hand at all times in case of another emergency, a marketing company’s survey says.
Toilet paper, hand sanitizer, paper towels, disinfectant wipes and canned goods were the top items 57% of shoppers were intending to amass, while 54% of those queried by Inmar Marketing, a Winston-Salem, North Carolina, data research firm, said they were planning to have reserves of the items now and in the future.
''The COVID-19 pandemic has no doubt shifted the shopping habits of consumers across the U.S. and a potential second wave of COVID-19 is top of mind for shoppers,'' Inmar said.
''Over a quarter (27%) of respondents are considering a winter stockpile because they are concerned that certain products won't be in stock when they need them, and another 27% are concerned about the safety with in-store shopping during a second wave of the pandemic.''
While the seven-day average of new daily cases of infection has surpassed their peak levels in July, the seven-day average of deaths has remained relatively flat, between 704 and 844 since Sept. 8, according to woldometers.info. The seven-day average of daily deaths peaked at 2,256 on April 21.
"Friends and families are moving social gatherings indoors, significantly increasing spread," the White House Coronavirus Task Force said in one of its weekly state reports, which noted that, per capita, northern interior states were experiencing the highest rates of new daily infections.
The top item that will be sought is toilet paper, listed by 67% of shoppers, and hand sanitizer (57%).
The other items were canned food (54%), disinfecting wipes (53%) and paper towels (52%).
Nearly two-thirds of shoppers (64%) said they have stockpiled items during the coronavirus outbreak, 57% of which still have their reserves.
Forty-five percent of shoppers intend to stockpile different items than they did the first time around, including frozen dinners, pasta, snacks and cleaning products.            © 2022 Newsmax. All rights reserved.         