      	President-elect Joe Biden is eyeing a bipartisan list of 30 members of Congress who are known for working across the aisle for key administration posts, The Post has learned.
The Biden transition team is looking at 20 lawmakers serving in the House of Representatives and 10 in the Senate who received the US Chamber of Commerce’s Jefferson-Hamilton 2020 award for bipartisanship.
Half the awardees are Republicans and half are Democrats.
There are five New Yorkers on the list, including two Democrats — upstate Rep. Anthony Brindisi and Hudson Valley Rep. Antonio Delgado.
Three Republicans on the list include retiring Long Island Rep. Peter King and upstate veteran lawmakers Tom Reed and John Katko. “This is what President-elect Biden talked about in his victory speech,” said a source close to the transition. “This is the bipartisanship that he is going to be trying.”
“A way of showing bipartisanship is who you hire.”
Biden vowed to be the president of all Americans in his victory speech.
Biden, 77, served four decades as the senator from Delaware before being tapped as Barack Obama’s vice president. He has deep ties to the institution. Senators on the bipartisan list include Republicans Susan Collins of Maine, Lisa Murkowski of Alaska and Rand Paul of Kentucky.
Democrats with strong grades for working on legislation across the aisle include Joe Manchin of West Virginia, Doug Jones of Alabama and Gary Peters of Michigan.
Biden’s narrow victory over President Trump in key battleground states show the nation remains deeply divided, and a key challenge for the new president is addressing the 70 million disappointed Americans who voted for the GOP incumbent. Trump has refused to concede and is filing long-shot legal challenges to try to overturn the results.
The Biden transition team had no immediate comment.
An insider said the Biden team is looking more closely at the House — where Democrats are in the majority — rather than the Senate, the fate of which is up for grabs depending on two special elections in Georgia being held next month.
Biden realizes it would be difficult to poach a Republican senator, who would be under tremendous pressure from the GOP not to cost the party the majority, the source said.
Such a power play would also poison the new president’s relationship with Senate GOP leader Mitch McConnell, whom he has known for decades.
“Not impossible. But no Republican wants to be the reason the majority in the Senate goes in the other direction,” the source said.
Also, Biden would only select a Democratic senator from a state where the governor also is a Democrat and would appoint a temporary successor. That would give the Democrat a leg up to keep the seat in a subsequent election, the insider said.
Speculation is that Democratic Delaware Sen. Chris Coons — a Biden confidante — could be appointed by the president-elect to a White House or cabinet post, the source said.   	