     Israel and Hamas announced a cease-fire in Gaza on Thursday, aiming to bring to an end more than 10 days of devastating hostilities. Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu’s office said his Security Cabinet had unanimously approved a “mutual and unconditional” truce brokered by Egypt. Hamas followed suit and said it would honor the agreement. Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu’s cabinet has agreed to a cease fire in Gaza.Sebastian Scheiner/AFP via Getty Images Hamas and Egypt said the cease-fire would begin at 2 a.m. Friday, local time, which was 7 p.m. Thursday ET. A statement from Netanyahu’s office hailed “significant achievements” by Israel’s military in the operation, “some of which are unprecedented.” It cautioned that “the reality on the ground will determine the continuation of the campaign.” A burning building in Gaza City following an Israeli bombardment on May 20, 2021.Photo by BASHAR TALEB/AFP via Getty Images A street in Gaza City full of smoke after an Israeli airstrike on May 14, 2021.Mohammed Abed/AFP via Getty Images A compound linked to Hamas getting bombed in Gaza City on May 14, 2021.Majdi Fathi/NurPhoto via Getty Images Hamas said the truce would be “mutual and simultaneous.” “The Palestinian resistance will commit itself to this deal as long as the occupation is committed,” Taher Nounou, a Hamas official, told the Associated Press. The diplomatic efforts for a cease-fire intensified on the 11th day of deadly violence between Israel and militants in Gaza, as airstrikes again hammered the enclave. UN chief Antonio Guterres told the General Assembly on Thursday that “the fighting must stop immediately,” calling the continued hostilities between Israeli forces and Palestinian groups “unacceptable.” “If there is a hell on Earth, it is the lives of children in Gaza,” Guterres said. President Biden on Wednesday had urged for a “significant de-escalation” — which Netanyahu publicly rebuffed, vowing to forge ahead with military operations. Meanwhile, Egypt, Qatar and the United Nations sought to mediate a deal. The White House said Biden would make televised remarks at 5:45 p.m Thursday about the cease-fire announcement. Two Egyptian security delegations “will be dispatched to Tel Aviv and the Palestinian territories to monitor its (the cease-fire) implementation and procedures to maintain stable conditions permanently,” sources told Agence France-Presse. In a televised speech Abu Ubaida, spokesman of the Hamas armed wing, said: “With the help of God, we were able to humiliate the enemy, its fragile entity and its savage army.” He threatened Hamas rocket fire that would reach throughout Israel if it violated the truce or struck Gaza before the hour of implementation. Israeli Defense Minister Benny Gantz said on Twitter that the Gaza offensive had yielded “unprecedented military gains.” The truce would put to a close some of the most intense fighting between Israel and Hamas since their 50-day war in 2014. The latest round of hostilities began on May 10 when Hamas militants in Gaza fired long-range rockets toward Jerusalem after days of clashes between Israeli police and Palestinian at the Al-Aqsa Mosque compound. Since then, Hamas and other militant groups have fired over 4,000 rockets at Israeli cities, with hundreds falling short and most of the rest intercepted. Israel launched hundreds of airstrikes during the operation, targeting what it said was Hamas’ military infrastructure, including a vast tunnel network. At least 230 Palestinians were killed, including 65 children and 39 women, with 1,710 people wounded, according to the Gaza Health Ministry, which does not break the numbers down into fighters and civilians. Hamas and the militant group Islamic Jihad said at least 20 of their fighters have been killed, while Israel said the number is at least 130. In Israel, 12 people were killed, including a 5-year-old boy, a 16-year-old girl and a soldier. With Post wires   	