        Much of the world bade “Sayonara!” to 2020 long before the new year landed in the US — and a subdued Times Square. As the COVID-19 pandemic continues to rage across the globe — no doubt making 2020 one of the worst years on record — here are some countries that ushered in 2021 ahead of us. Samoa, Tonga and Kiritimati The Pacific islands are the first in the world to bring in the new year. Apia, the capital of Samoa and its largest city, celebrated with music and a fireworks display livestreamed on the government Facebook page. The new year on the islands began at 5 a.m. Eastern time. And though it sits right next to Samoa, American Samoa is actually 25 hours behind the island — making it among the last to welcome 2021. New Zealand Fireworks from the SkyTower during Auckland New Year’s Eve celebrations.Dave Rowland/Getty Images for Auckland Unlimited Kiwis rang in 2021 with a fireworks show on the Auckland Harbour Bridge — a double celebration of sorts as the country enjoys COVID-free status. Thousands gathered for the five-minute light show, the Evening Standard reported. Australia New Year’s Eve fireworks erupt over Sydney’s iconic Harbour Bridge and Opera House.Saeed Khan/AFP via Getty Images The streets of Sydney were empty despite the city’s annual, epic fireworks show at Harbour Bridge. City officials implemented strict COVID-19 restrictions in hopes of thwarting crowds — and containing the spread of the virus, news.com.au reported. Melbourne, Australia’s second-most populous city, nixed its New Year’s fireworks show altogether due to the pandemic. Japan Security guards hold signs saying “No countdown event for today” in Tokyo.Yuichi Yamazaki/Getty Images The nation’s new year began at 10 a.m. Thursday Eastern Time. The-celebration typically sees crowds flock to shrines and temples to mark the holiday. This year officials closed the gates of Meiji Shrine in Tokyo, among the most popular, to limit crowd size. Provincial Gov. Yuriko Koike urged residents to “emphasize life over fun” as Tokyo grapples with a surge of coronavirus infections. China Beijing’s annual light show was canceled but thousands of people in Wuhan — where the COVID-19 outbreak originated — celebrated by releasing balloons into the air, BBC News reported. Taiwan The Asian country kept to a theme of “love” to bring in 2021, cheering front-line medical workers in its fireworks bonanza in the capital of Taipei, Euro News said. The five-minute show used 16,000 fireworks and included red and blue hearts. Russia Russia welcomed 2021 with a massive fireworks display above the Kremlin in Moscow’s Red Square, the Telegraph reported. In his annual pre-midnight address to the nation, President Vladimir Putin urged the country to unite in its fight against the coronavirus. Greece Fireworks like up the night sky over the Acropolis in Athens as Greeks celebrated the new year, ABC News said on Twitter. 
Greek officials announced prior the New Year that authorities would keep people off the streets to avoided public unrest. South Africa Johannesburg canceled the city’s typically raucous New Year’s bash due to the spread of the coronavirus. Instead, city Mayor Geoff Makhubo lit a candle on the Nelson Mandela Bridge, and urged residents to do likewise — instead of firecrackers, KSN-TV reported. Greek officials announced prior the New Year that authorities would keep people off the streets to avoided public unrest. South Africa Johannesburg canceled the city’s typically raucous New Year’s bash due to the spread of the coronavirus. Instead, city Mayor Geoff Makhubo lit a candle on the Nelson Mandela Bridge, and urged residents to do likewise — instead of firecrackers, KSN-TV reported. Germany 
What is usually one the largest street parties in Europe, this year’s celebration at Berlin’s Brandenburg Gate was without a live audience. Berliners still wishing to enjoy the music were able to stream it online or watch it on TV. 
France 
While there were no public events in Paris, the city provided free entertainment with a live-streamed virtual concert in the famed Notre Dame Cathedral by composer Jean-Michel Jarre, according to the Daily Express. Those who headed out to ring in the new year were under the watchful eye of 100,000 police officers dispatched throughout the country to enforce lockdown rules, according to France24.com. Scotland 
Edinburgh’s Hogmanay celebrations were broadcast online, thanks to the help of 150 drones capturing the event, the Daily Record reported. 
Scotland’s First Minister Nicola Sturgeon outlined what he expected not to see. “No gatherings, no house parties, no first-footing. Instead, we should bring in 2021 in our own homes with just our own households,” he said.   	