           The silencing of conservative speech on social media has spiraled into a "coordinated effort" by big tech to close down Parler, according to the social media platform's CEO John Matze.
"Every vendor from text message services to email providers to our lawyers all ditched us too on the same day," Matze told "Sunday Morning Futures" with Maria Bartiromo.
Matze was appearing after releasing a statement on the attempts to "destroy" his business.
"This was a coordinated attack by the tech giants to kill the competition in the marketplace," Matze's statement read. "We were too successful too fast.
"You can expect the war on competition and free speech to continue, but don't count us out. #speakfreely."
Matze's statement comes as Amazon is removing the platform from its webservers, which might take the conservative social media platform down for about a week.
"Sunday at midnight Amazon will be shutting off all of our servers in an attempt to completely remove free speech off the Internet," he wrote. "There is a possibility Parler will be unavailable on the Internet for up to a week as we rebuild from scratch.
"We prepared for events like this by never relying on Amazon's proprietary infrastructure and building bare metal products."
Matze called out Amazon, Google, and Apple for orchestrating the "coordinated effort."
"We will try our best to move to a new provider right now as we have many competing for our business; however, Amazon, Google, and Apple purposely did this as a coordinated effort knowing our options will be limited and knowing this would inflict the most damage right as President Trump was banned from the tech companies."
The move was "an assault on everybody," told Fox News.
"They all work together to make sure at the same time we would lose access to not only our apps, but they're actually shutting all of our servers off tonight, off the internet," Matze said. "They made an attempt to not only kill the app, but to actually destroy the entire company. And it’s not just these three companies. Every vendor from text message services to email providers to our lawyers all ditched us too on the same day."           © 2022 Newsmax. All rights reserved.         