                  	A rioter throws a tear gas canister back at law enforcement officers during a rally for the abolishment of ICE in Portland, Ore., January 20, 2021.      (Lindsey Wasson/Reuters)                     Portland, Ore., Police declared an unlawful assembly Wednesday night after roughly 150 rioters damaged a federal immigration facility in the city, authorities said.
Rioters threw rocks and eggs and vandalized the Immigration and Customs Enforcement building, Portland police Sgt. Kevin Allen said Wednesday night, adding that some were seen carrying pepper ball guns, electronic control weapons, shields, fireworks and rocks. “We have observed property damage to the building,” the Portland Police Bureau wrote on Twitter. “Anyone who is involved in criminal behavior including: vandalism and graffitting is subject to arrest or citation.”
Federal law enforcement used “crowd-control munitions,” he said, while police announced Thursday morning that some arrests had been made and that they were standing by “to address crimes” in the surrounding neighborhood.
Portland saw a number of demonstrations on Wednesday as President Joe Biden’s inauguration was underway in Washington, D.C., according to Fox News.
Antifa demonstrators who gathered to express dissatisfaction with Biden sparred with police, forcing officers to retreat and taking at least one police bicycle.       
Roughly 150 people attended a “J20” protest against Biden and law enforcement around 2 p.m., marching from Revolution Hall to the Democratic Party of Oregon’s headquarters. The group smashed windows and vandalized the building with graffiti.
Portland: Watch shocking footage of #antifa smashing up the Democratic Party of Oregon headquarters. They bring weapons while their comrades use umbrellas to block surveillance video. Video by @Julio_Rosas11. #PortlandRiots pic.twitter.com/KdNNRgIEV0
— Andy Ngô (@MrAndyNgo) January 20, 2021
Video clips show people holding signs saying, “We are ungovernable” and “We don’t want Biden – We want revenge!” for “Police Murders,” “Imperialist Wars” and “Fascist Massacres.”
Police officers arrested eight adults in total, on charges ranging from rioting and possession of a destructive device to reckless burning.
Rioters “showed aggression by swarming officers and throwing objects” when officers entered the crowd on bicycles to ask a demonstrator to remove metal poles affixed to a banner that could be used as a weapon.
Portland: #Antifa try to steal an officer’s bicycle after he confiscated a knife from one of them. #PortlandRiots pic.twitter.com/GszVPPJoMr
— Andy Ngô (@MrAndyNgo) January 21, 2021
Police recovered long poles and a large knife from people in the crowd, they said. Officers deployed a smoke canister after the crowd blocked them from leaving.
Send a tip to the news team at NR.                   	Recommended          	RNC Should Take a Lesson from Mike Pence     The RNC censure resolution was morally repellent, while the former vice president took a stand for the truth.              	NBC's 'Cataclysmic' Olympics-Coverage Flop     How can anyone feel good about these Olympics?              	Nikole Hannah-Jones Responds to Our 1619 and Slavery Issue     She reacted with a lot of sneering and ad hominem argumentation and nothing of substance.              	Joe Biden Doesn’t Know What You’re Talking About     To watch Biden at the lectern was to experience shock and dismay interspersed with moments of alarm and dark humor. No wonder he hides from the media.              	Why Were Authorities So Evasive About the Synagogue Gunman's Motive?     Why were President Biden and the FBI so reluctant to say that the synagogue gunman was motivated by antisemitism and jihadism?              	The Afghanistan Debacle Looks Worse and Worse     The more we learn about the administration’s withdrawal, the more it becomes clear that its decisions were driven by political considerations and panic.       	The Latest          	Maskless Super Bowl Marks Our Return to Normalcy     This collective moment was a warning to the Covid regime that its strictures won’t stand much longer.              	Russian Figure-Skating Prodigy Will Compete at Olympics Despite Failed Drug Test     The IOC has decided it will not hold a medal ceremony for any event in which Valieva places in the top three while the matter remains under investigation.                      The IRS Wants Your Picture     The agency’s plans for facial recognition might be abandoned for now, but its lust for data is never satiated.              	Why America’s Government-Debt Problem Endures     Any meaningful change requires enough Americans deciding that they really do want less government in their lives, and then acting accordingly.              	‘Blame America first,’ &c.     On Jeane Kirkpatrick, today’s Russia debate, Edward Snowden, Ukraine’s right to exist, and more.        