        President Biden on Friday released his massive $6 trillion budget for fiscal 2022 pushing a surge in spending on social programs and broadly defined infrastructure through tax hikes on businesses and higher-earners. The budget — which would set the US on course for higher spending as a percent of the economy than ever before and continue to balloon the national debt — calls for a 16-percent increase in non-defense spending. But it’s also an aspirational document that requires Congress to enact it. Critics of Biden’s first budget say it would undermine the economic recovery with higher taxes and inflation as COVID-19 fades. “Biden’s budget is doubling down on a cradle-to-grave government… that’s a lot more woke,” said Russ Vought, who was budget director to former President Donald Trump and is now president of the Center for Renewing America. “Biden has cut, copy and pasted economic policy from the 1970s. And at a time of inflation, record debt and gas lines, it’s not a serious budget.” The document was not released until the Friday afternoon before the three-day Memorial Day weekend. President Biden unveiled his massive $6 trillion budget on May 28.Chris Kleponis/CNP/Bloomberg via Getty Images Top Republicans in Congress promptly rejected the blueprint. “President Biden’s budget is dead on arrival – just like all other presidential budgets,” said Sen. Lindsey Graham (R-SC), the top Republican on the Senate Budget Committee. Graham said the budget “is insanely expensive.” But the foreign policy hawk also objected to modest increases for the military relative to social spending, which some conservatives slam for potentially not keeping up with inflation. “Over time it will result in a weakened Department of Defense,” Graham said.  
Sen. Chuck Grassley (R-Iowa), who also serves on the budget committee, said, “It’s one of the oldest tricks in the Washington playbook: wait until Friday afternoon before a three-day holiday weekend to put out bad news, and hope the American people don’t notice.” “Unfortunately, this budget proposal is months late and rather than addressing our unsustainable national debt, it exacerbates it by proposing the highest sustained levels of federal spending since World War II,” Grassley said. This budget is the same as his other proposals thus far; a liberal wish list of exorbitant spending and job killing tax hikes. All Americans would pay the price for policies that would lead to reduced economic growth, lower wages and fewer jobs.” But Biden administration officials were also ready with positive spin. Secretary of State Tony Blinken said it “reinvests in education, research, public health, and other foundations of our country’s strength. Enacting this budget this year will strengthen our Nation’s economy and lay the foundation for shared prosperity, while also improving our Nation’s long-term fiscal health.” President Biden’s budget includes large, broadly defined infrastructure projects.Jeff Dean/AFP via Getty Images White House acting budget director Shalanda Young highlighted on a press call some of the lesser-known items, such as $6.5 billion to launch ARPA-H, which would be a new health agency aimed at curing cancer. It would be a part of the National Institutes of Health. She said that coming off the COVID-19 pandemic, the budget included “the largest budget authority increase at the CDC in nearly two decades to help rebuild its capacity to detect, prepare for, and respond to emerging global threats.” Young also highlighted $36 billion in “discretionary climate investments” on top of major proposed green-energy initiatives within Biden’s infrastructure proposal. The budget relies on delicate assumptions about economic growth and tax revenue, as well as the likely disbursement of funds over many years if Biden’s massive infrastructure and “families” plans pass Congress. Those large bills remain subject to negotiations with Republicans and the price tags are in flux. For example, Biden has lowered his pitch for an infrastructure bill from $2.3 trillion to $1.7 trillion, with Republican senators counter-proposing less than $1 trillion. But if Democrats walk away from negotiations and remain unified, they are technically able to ram through Congress with zero support from Republicans the original infrastructure plan and Biden’s $1.8 trillion “families” plan. If adopted, the budget would put the annual deficit at an average of $1.3 trillion per year for the next decade, with the budget scaling up to $8.2 trillion by 2031.  
About $4 trillion of the 2022 budget is mandatory spending on entitlements like Social Security and Medicare and interest on the national debt. Budget details previewed in April included $861 million to invest in Central America to address the forces driving people to migrate to the United States and an additional $345 million to immigration services to resolve delays in years-long naturalization and asylum cases. The budget proposes funds to hire 100 new immigration judges. Country-specific information released Friday indicates that Guatemala stands to gain the most from increased aid out of the three-country “Northern Triangle,” which also includes Honduras and El Salvador. The three countries are home to many families and unaccompanied minors who have surged over the US-Mexico border to request asylum. Guatemala, which will host Vice President Kamala Harris on a visit next month, would receive almost $114 million in direct development aid, up from less than $66 million. Harris has spoken twice with Guatemala’s president, but has not spoken with the scandal-plagued leaders of El Salvador and Honduras, which would get $95 million each in development aid, up from $70 million and $65 million, respectively. The budget also calls for USAID’s Central America division to receive $73 million to distribute, up from $5 million. A new anti-drug trafficking fund for Central America would get $220 million. And a new State Department Central American regional economic support fund would receive $131 million — a dramatic bump from $1.5 million that was specifically earmarked for Guatemala and $2 million for El Salvador. Other specific budget items include putting $2.1 billion toward the Justice Department to address “the gun violence public health crisis plaguing communities across the Nation,” according to an April fact sheet. That would be an increase of $232 million from 2021. It also seeks a $1 billion boost to the IRS — for a total $13.2 billion — to help catch tax cheats. But there’s no guarantee the budget will be adopted due to stiff Republican opposition to tax hikes on businesses, higher incomes and investments and concern from centrist Democrats about the scale of spending and the omission of certain items. 
The budget comes amid reports of rising inflation on the heels of Biden’s $1.9 trillion COVID-19 stimulus bill, which passed in March with no Republican votes. In April, the White House previewed significant elements of the fiscal 2022 budget, including a 16 percent jump in domestic agency spending and a 1.7 percent bump for the military. Biden’s pending infrastructure plan proposes $400 billion for home and community health care, $174 billion for electric vehicle subsidies, $115 billion for roads and bridges, $111 billion for water systems, $100 billion for school construction and $100 billion for broadband internet, among other items. The “families” plan calls for $511 billion for education, including universal preschool for 3- and 4-year-olds and free community college, $225 billion for child care, including a subsidy that caps expenses at 7 percent of income, and $225 billion to subsidize 12 weeks of paid parental and sick leave and $45 billion more for food stamps and school food programs. It contains $800 billion in tax credits, including to make the more generous child tax credit permanent and award $200 billion to Obamacare users.   	