
It was a year filled with micro-aggressions and gender neutral pronouns. Bruce became Caitlyn. Black Lives Mattered. And the Baby Jesus got banned. The Greatest Generation has given way to the Perpetually Offended Generation – young Americans who suffer epic meltdowns at the mere hint of criticism. Young Americans who feel entitled to take what you earned. This past year we covered the stories the Mainstream Media ignored – giving a voice to the folks President Obama once called bitter – those of us who cling to our guns and our religion. We saw the Supreme Court decide they knew better than God. We saw school districts giving accommodation to Islam while marginalizing Christianity. We saw public schools become indoctrination centers for the sexual revolution. We saw the Southern States endure a cultural cleansing to appease the race agitators. And through it all, we have remained steadfast in our foxhole on the front lines of this war on traditional American values. So here’s my list of stories that fired up all of you gun-toting, Bible clinging patriots – stories that sent liberals scampering to find their “safe spaces.” 10. Stop the Insanity: BBQ pit masters told to take down American flags Nothing says America quite like smoking a pork butt and flying Old Glory. “The sport of professional barbecue is extremely American and family oriented,”said pitmaster Jeff Petkevicius. So you can imagine Jeff’s extreme displeasure when organizers of an Alabama barbecue competition ordered him – along with other competitors to take down the American flags hanging from their barbecue trailers. 9. University President Rebukes 'self-absorbed, Narcissistic' Students A chapel sermon on love left a student at Oklahoma Wesleyan University (OKWU), feeling “offended” and “victimized.” But instead of capitulating to the offended young scholar at the evangelical Christian university of the Wesleyan Church, OKWU President Everett Piper pushed back with a blistering rebuke of what he called “self-absorbed and narcissistic” students in a blog post on the university's website. “This is not a day care. This is a university,” he wrote in a blog that has since gone viral. 8. Good Grief! Obama Thinks Christmas Is About Loving Tiny Trees President Obama took a break from saving the icebergs to weigh in on what he believes to be the true meaning of Christmas – loving tiny trees. The president, along with the first lady, delivered their homage to foliage during an appearance on a television program recognizing the 50th anniversary of “A Charlie Brown Christmas.” 7. Obama at Prayer Event: Christians did terrible things, too President Obama called on people of faith to reject those who use religion to justify evil – and in doing so – reminded people about the terrible things done in the name of Jesus Christ. Obama told a gathering Thursday at the National Prayer Breakfast that we have seen “professions of faith used both as an instrument of great good but twisted in the name of evil.” 6. TCU student punished for criticizing Islam, Baltimore riots All it took was 140 characters for Texas Christian University to suspend a conservative student who posted a series of social networking posts that insulted the Islamic State, the Baltimore rioters and Mexicans. TCU banned Harry Vincent from most campus activities, ordered him to perform 60 hours of community service and attend a diversity training class. The 19-year-old, who is a member of the College Republicans and the Young Americans for Freedom, said he was told by the university that his conservative views were “inappropriate.” 5. Frat boys spit on wounded vet, urinate on American flag Investigations have been launched at two universities over accusations that fraternity members taunted wounded war heroes, urinated on an American flag, and spit on a wounded veteran and his service dog in Panama City, Florida. The April 17 incident, involving Zeta Beta Tau fraternity members from the University of Florida and Emory University, has infuriated residents of Panama City. 4. ‘We will not obey’: Christian leaders threaten civil disobedience if Supreme Court legalizes gay marriage “We will not obey.” That’s the blunt warning a group of prominent religious leaders is sending to the Supreme Court of the United States as they consider same-sex marriage. “We respectfully warn the Supreme Court not to cross that line,” read a document titled, Pledge in Solidarity to Defend Marriage. “We stand united together in defense of marriage. Make no mistake about our resolve.” 3. School named after war hero forces child to shave off military-style haircut A 7-year-old Tennessee boy was forced to shave off his military-style haircut because it violated school policy. The little boy wanted to emulate his older stepbrother – who serves in the U.S. Army. 2. Students at UC Irvine vote to ban American flag Students at the University of California, Irvine have voted to make their school a more “culturally inclusive” place by banning the American flag.The Associated Students of University of California (ASUCI) passed a resolution March 3 that would remove the Stars & Stripes along with every other flag from the lobby of a complex housing the offices of the student government. 1. Marine court-martialed for refusing to remove Bible verse A United States Marine was convicted at a court-martial for refusing to remove a Bible verse on her computer – a verse of Scripture the military determined “could easily be seen as contrary to good order and discipline.” READ MORE STORIES FROM TODD STARNES AT FOXNEWS.COM!
