                NewsBlock_9AM_033116_HD1080_79.947_180.509
Republican front-runner Donald Trump is once again making waves – this time because of a controversial comment about abortion.
During a Wednesday taping with MSNBC host Chris Matthews Wednesday, the business mogul said that should abortion become illegal, women who undergo the procedure should face "some sort of punishment."
"For the woman?" Matthews asked.
"Yeah, there has to be some form," Trump said.
"Ten cents, 10 years, what?" the MSNBC host pressed.
"I don't know. That I don't know. That I don't know," Trump replied.
Just hours later, the Trump campaign completely reversed course, saying ultimately that the GOP frontrunner believes abortion providers and not the women getting abortions should be the ones punished.
Trump's rivals fired back, shooting down his comments about women being punished for abortions.
"It's the latest demonstration of how little Donald has thought about any of the serious issues facing this country," Sen. Ted Cruz, R-Texas, said.
Democratic frontrunner Hillary Clinton chimed in on Twitter, saying, "Just when you thought it couldn't get worse. Horrific and telling."
These latest comments aren't the only blow to Trump's campaign. Polls show his numbers falling in the next primary state. Cruz now has a 10-point lead over Trump in Wisconsin, according to a new Marquette Law School survey.
With the candidates vying for delegates ahead of the conventions it's been an ugly race that's included attacks each other's wives, character and the list goes on.
Political consultant Karl Rove wrote in the Wall Street Journal that big political action groups are researching Trump and Clinton for the general election, gathering dirt for future attack ads.
He says they'll be going after Trump's controversial comments, his business failures, and character flaws, and Clinton's history of scandals and lies, and her lack of trustworthiness.
Rove warned that we should all "get ready for the ugliest campaign in memory."                            