           by:      	Posted: May 4, 2016 / 04:29 PM EDT     / Updated: May 4, 2016 / 05:57 PM EDT             	This is an archived article and the information in the article may be outdated. Please look at the time stamp on the story to see when it was last updated.  COLUMBUS, Ohio – Ohio Gov. John Kasich announced the suspension of his presidential campaign Wednesday evening in Columbus.
He kept his remarks short, but thanked his wife, his two daughters, his staff and the hundreds of volunteers who supported his presidential run. The governor also reflected on a few people he met along the campaign trail.
“I have always said God has a purpose for me, as he does for everyone,” Kasich said moments before officially suspending his bid for the White House. “Thank you and God bless.”
While he acknowledged his campaign never had the funds to compete, he stayed positive about his impact on the race.
“They didn’t think I could make a debate; I made all 13 of them. Even won a few,” Kasich said with a smile.
The Ohio governor also had a few words of warning for other politicians, saying, “Economic growth can be achieved by public officials, if they do their jobs.” He said those in office shouldn’t pay attention to polls.
After the news broke earlier on Wednesday, Donald Trump said Kasich is “doing the right thing” by dropping out of the presidential race, adding that he is interested in vetting the Ohio governor as a potential running mate.
“That’s good. That’s good. You’re just telling me that for the first time,” Trump said when CNN’s Wolf Blitzer relayed the news of Kasich’s decision, which CNN confirmed during the interview.
Kasich has been critical of Trump’s rhetoric and many of his proposals on the campaign trail, but Trump insisted that he has “a very good relationship with John.”
“I think John will be very helpful with Ohio,” Trump said of Kasich and his home state, which will once again be a battleground state in November’s general election.
Kasich’s decision to drop out now leaves Trump with an entirely unobstructed path to the Republican nomination after Texas Sen. Ted Cruz dropped out Tuesday night.
GOP Convention spokesperson Kirsten Kukowski told FOX 8, “The convention staff will begin working with the Trump campaign to bring them up to speed on the months of planning that’s been happening in Cleveland so we can unite and make the convention a success for the Republican Party and nominee.”
The Republican National Convention will be held July 18 to 21 in Cleveland.
The general election, Trump said, has “essentially” begun.
Continuing coverage on the presidential race here
More on John Kasich here  	