           Donald Trump's campaign Friday slammed the release of Hillary Clinton's taxes as merely "an attempt at distraction and misdirection" from the Democratic nominee's email scandal.
"Hillary Clinton has turned over the only records nobody wants to see from her," said spokesman Jason Miller. "The American public wants to see the 33,000 emails she deleted to obstruct an FBI investigation.
"We want to see the Clinton Foundation records showing how the Clintons sold our uranium to Russia, ripped off Haiti and cut deals with oppressive regimes around the world.
"We want to see the pay-for-play emails that Clinton’s chief of staff, Cheryl Mills, refuses to turn over," Miller continued in a statement. "We want to see the transcripts of the secret Wall Street speeches Clinton was paid $10,000 dollars-a-minute to give.
"We want to see the records the night of Benghazi that explain why Secretary Clinton didn't send in reinforcements as soon as the attack had begun."
In a direct challenge to Trump his tax information, the Clinton campaign information showing that Hillary and Bill Clinton earned $10.6 million last year.
The Clintons paid a federal tax rate of 34.2 percent last year, according to the documents.
Most of the couple's income, more than $6 million, came from speaking fees for appearances made largely before Hillary Clinton began her White House campaign in April 2015.
They also donated $1,042,000 to charity.
The Daily Caller reports that $1 million of that amount went to The Clinton Foundation.
"Hillary Clinton is at the center of an international corruption scandal that reveals her use of government authority and influence for personal gain," Miller said. "The records we need to see are those being hidden, deleted, obstructed and stashed away by Hillary Clinton to keep authorities from untangling this corrupt scheme that reaches into the world's shady corridors of power.
"Everything she doesn't want us to see has been digitally shredded or put under lock and key," he added.
"This document release is nothing more than an attempt at distraction and misdirection by an individual who created and then purged an illegal private email server."           © 2022 Newsmax. All rights reserved.         