  	A few months after Hillary Clinton took over as U.S. secretary of state in 2009, a longtime associate with connections to the Clinton Foundation insisted that her senior aides give a job to an unidentified male associate.
“Important to take care of [name redacted],” Douglas Band, President Bill Clinton’s former right-hand man, wrote to Clinton aides Huma Abedin, Cheryl Mills, and Nora Toiv in an April 22, 2009, email. “We have all had him on our radar,” Abedin responded. “Personnel has been sending him options.”
The subject line on the email read “A favor…”
The email exchanged was uncovered by government watchdog group Judicial Watch, and was the result of a Freedom of Information Act lawsuit. It’s the latest example of the kind of cronyism that was rife at the State Department under Hillary Clinton’s watch.
Band served as a top aide to former President Bill Clinton and assisted in creating the Clinton Global Initiative. He is also a founding partner of Teneo, a global consulting firm that obtained approval from the State Department for a paid consulting arrangement between Bill Clinton and Band.
Teneo is the same firm where Mrs. Clinton longtime right-hand woman Huma Abedin worked as a senior adviser. Abedin was advising Teneo while working as a senior Clinton aide at the State Department.
While she was secretary of state, Hillary Clinton also handpicked Teneo co-founder and CEO Declan Kelly as her economic envoy to Northern Ireland.
In a separate email exchange, Band emailed Abedin and Mills requesting help connecting Clinton Foundation mega-donor Gilbert Chagoury with the State Department’s “substance person” on Lebanon affairs. Abedin later promised to contact the “substance person” about the request.
“This is very important,” Band replied, noting the urgency of the request.
Chagoury, of course, is the wealthy Nigerian-Lebanese businessman and longtime friend of former President Bill Clinton, whose worldwide exploits were heavily documented in The New York Times bestselling book Clinton Cash, authored by Breitbart News Senior Editor-at-Large Peter Schweizer.
In 2000, Switzerland convicted Chagoury of money-laundering and “aiding a criminal organization in connection with the billions of dollars stolen from Nigeria during the [Sani] Abacha years” of military dictatorship, according to a PBS Frontline report. And despite Chagoury’s being put on the federal terrorist no-fly list, the Clinton Foundation accepted a $1 to $5 million donation from the nefarious figure. Chagoury’s company pledged $1 billion to the Clinton Global Initiative in 2009, the same year the Clinton Global Initiative awarded the Chagoury Group its annual prize for “sustainable development.”
“No wonder Hillary Clinton and Huma Abedin hid emails from the American people, the courts and Congress,” Judicial Watch President Tom Fitton said in a statement Tuesday.
Fitton asserted that Clinton and her aides violated ethics rules and may have broken the law.
“They show the Clinton Foundation, Clinton donors, and operatives worked with Hillary Clinton in potential violation of the law.”
Follow Jerome Hudson on Twitter: @JeromeEHudson.  