       SCROLL TO BOTTOM FOR UPDATES
This morning, an IED (improvisational explosive device) went off at a Marine Charity 5K event in Seaside Park, New Jersey. Fortunately, no one was hurt. The FBI is now investigating to determine if it was terrorism. Other unexploded devices were found. Some details:
Della Fave said multiple explosive devices were enclosed in the trash can, designed to send shrapnel flying, but because only one of them detonated, “it appears it didn’t do the damage it was supposed to.’’
Police sources say there were as many as three inside the trash can.
Remnants and residue from the bomb are being sent to an FBI lab for analysis, a law-enforcement source said.
A number of questions remain unanswered as of Saturday night: how the bomb was detonated; what type of explosive was used; and if any surveillance camera caught a suspect planting the device.
Della Fave said there were about 3,000 people assembled at the registration area for the race when the pipe-bomb detonated.
An unattended backpack may have saved lives:
Throughout the day Saturday, there were two explanations offered by authorities and event organizers as to what caused the start of the Seaside Semper Five Marine Corps Charity 5K to be delayed, perhaps inadvertently saving lives and avoiding injuries.
Cathy Howath, 50, of Upper Saddle River, and her sister, Janie Murphy, 52, of Bridgewater, were among those who signed up to run in the 5K.
But before the race was supposed to go off, the discovery of a backpack near a media tent sent off a repetitive announcement over a bullhorn, Howath said.
“They kept making the announcement, ‘There’s an unclaimed, blue backpack by the News 12 tent and the radio station tent. If this is your backpack please come and claim it.’ It was said repeatedly,’’ Howath said.
Eventually, a student from Donovan Catholic High School in Toms River claimed the backpack, Murphy said. She and her sister said they believe this also delayed the start of the race and spared participants from injury.
“It was a blessing in disguise, because the pipe bomb would have gone off when the 5K was going,’’ Howath said.
Meanwhile, around 8:30 pm, EST, a dumpster exploded in Chelsea, a New York City neighborhood, injuring an estimated 25 people but killing none. Currently, a second device may have been discovered. This is not confirmed. There are conflicting reports as to whether the explosion was caused by an IED. Police, homeland security gather at scene of NYC explosion in Chelsea 23rd and 6th pic.twitter.com/wYqqwLAxus
— Liz Mandel (@elisabetherapy) September 18, 2016
Here’s the news of the second device:
A possible secondary device has been located @ 27th Street, 6th – 7th Avenues. #NYPD nvestigations are ongoing. Avoid the area @NYPD13Pct
— NYPD Special Ops (@NYPDSpecialops) September 18, 2016 Finally, in St. Cloud, Minnesota, a crazed stabber, rampaged and stabbed multiple people before being shot by police. Local news WJON reports:
Crossroads Shopping Center in St. Cloud is in lockdown this evening as authorities and emergency crews respond to a stabbing situation there.
St. Cloud Police say they were called to the scene at 8:15 p.m. tonight (Saturday) after reports came in of a possible stabbing.
Authorities say there have been multiple victims of stab wounds taken the St. Cloud Hospital tonight and they believe the person responsible for the multiple stabbings is now dead inside the mall.
The number of victims is unknown at this time.
The mall is still in a lockdown, people inside the mall will not be able to leave until authorities clear the scene.
More here.
Will update as more is known. UPDATE 11:28 PM EST
NEW: Number of injured in Manhattan blast rises to at least 29, including one who may be seriously injured – police
— BNO News (@BNONews) September 18, 2016
UPDATE 11:46 PM EST
Media doing what it does. Currently, they’re trying to say that Trump was irresponsible for saying the New York explosion was a bombing while Hillary Clinton herself calls it a bombing.
Blake Hounshell doing his thing pic.twitter.com/1EztksmdmT
— Stephen Miller (@redsteeze) September 18, 2016 UPDATE 12:09 AM EST, Sunday, September 18th
Hillary briefs the press but what strikes me is how she can barely keep her eyes open. Is she doped up, exhausted, or what?
She looks exhausted. https://t.co/EvB615dogF
— Melissa Clouthier ? (@MelissaTweets) September 18, 2016
The second device looks like a Pressure Cooker bomb. Some speculating on Twitter that perhaps a bomb was behind but not in the dumpster. More will be known over time.
JUST IN: Authorities believe they may have found a pressure cooker device on 27th St in NYC, sources say – @MLevineReports
— ABC News (@ABC) September 18, 2016
UPDATE 1:24 AM EST, Sunday
Press conference in the St. Cloud, Minnesota attacks: Attacker asked people if they were Muslim before attacking, but authorities don’t want to say if it was terrorism. Police not releasing any identifying information of St. Cloud mall stabbing attack suspect — won't say age, whether he lived in city, etc.
— Steve Tellier KSTP (@stellierkstp) September 18, 2016 Police not releasing any identifying information of St. Cloud mall stabbing attack suspect — won't say age, whether he lived in city, etc.
— Steve Tellier KSTP (@stellierkstp) September 18, 2016 It was off-duty police officer who fired shots that killed St. Cloud mall stabbing attack suspect inside mall & ended attack.
— Steve Tellier KSTP (@stellierkstp) September 18, 2016 St. Cloud mall stabbing attack suspect was wearing a private security firm uniform. Had prior contact with police thru traffic stops only.
— Steve Tellier KSTP (@stellierkstp) September 18, 2016
LAST UPDATE: 2:30 AM EST, Sunday
The Bomb was removed from Chelsea. Investigation ongoing.
#Explosion outside our apartment at 23rd and 6th in #newyork. Terrified. Hoping everyone is okay. pic.twitter.com/i3q4cG7aWT
— N∑H∆ (@nnehajainn) September 18, 2016
The media is in overdrive trying to hush, hide, and deny this story.       