
The worst hurricane to hit the United States in 10 years continues to head north off Florida's eastern coast.
Millions of Floridians were spared from Hurricane Matthew's full wrath, but the historic storm continues to threaten the East Coast. For the latest track/forecast of Hurricane Matthew, visit the National Hurricane Center.
How You Can Help:
Give to Operation Blessing
The CBN News team has arrived in Florida to cover #HurricaneMatthew. Please keep our crew in prayer. May God be merciful to Florida. Watch John Jessup's message below:
Gushing flood waters stranded many who refused to escape the storm's path and left some 1 million Floridians without electricity.
Tempers flared among some people as they tried to gas up before getting out. One man said he "saw two guys fighting at a gas station yesterday - actually throwing punches!"
Those who stayed behind emptied store shelves and Disney World closed for only the fourth time in its history. Thousands of travelers were stuck as flights were canceled at airports in Miami, Fort Lauderdale, and Orlando.
But the full force of Mathew's powerful gusts and 125 miles per hour winds veered away from the 6 million people living in the Miami-Fort Lauderdale-Palm Beach area. Instead of mauling through Florida as expected, the hurricane mostly stayed over warm waters.
But after gaining fuel from the warm winds off the coast, Florida's fortune could mean devastation for the surrounding region. President Barack Obama is warning that Matthew is "still a really dangerous hurricane."  Meeting in the Oval Office on Friday with FEMA Administrator Craig Fugate, Obama said he was concerned about storm surge and that as the hurricane moves north, areas such as Jacksonville, Florida, and Georgia might be less prepared.
Some 500,000 people were told to evacuate the Jacksonville area, while thousands more were told to completely clear out of Georgia. Meteorologists say these areas could see 15 inches to 9 feet of potentially deadly flood waters.
Earlier Friday, CBN News Anchor John Jessup was in Florida near Cocoa Beach.
"We're already seeing the effects of Matthew, with bands of driving rain, and heavy winds. Just behind me the road is absolutely empty. County-wide curfews went into effect late Thursday night. They'll last until Saturday morning, all with the intent to keeping people safe," Jessup reported.
The National Hurricane Center says storm surge and destruction will make places along the coast uninhabitable for weeks, possibly months.
CBN's Operation Blessing is staging relief in central Florida and is ready to move into those areas as needed. Volunteers will be serving up hot meals, providing food, water, and other essentials.
Operation Blessing Vice President Jody Gettys says in the long run, the relief organization will help the hurricane victims rebuild.
"We focus on the folks that still have a home but maybe it's completely flooded and it needs to be rebuilt, so what we do is go in and help them take those first steps -- recover their belongings, gut the home, get it down to the studs so that they can take those first steps at rebuilding," Gettys explained.
Meanwhile, the U.S. military is heading to Haiti to provide aid to residents. The death toll is steadily rising over the initial 300 casualties. Most of the victims were impoverished people who either did not know about the storm or had nothing to protect themselves. Authorities are on the ground to assess the damage.
