           Hillary Clinton, her campaign torpedoed Friday by newly uncovered emails that may relate to her mishandling of classified information on her private server, said FBI Director James Comey owes voters the "full and complete facts immediately" – urging him, "Let's get it out."
In a terse news conference hours after news of the newly discovered emails, a somber Clinton said she was "confident" the information, whatever it is, won't change the conclusion the FBI director reached in July.
"We are 11 days out from, perhaps, the most important national election of our lifetime," the Democratic nominee said. "Voting is already underway in our country. So the American people deserve to get the full and complete facts immediately."
She added that Comey "has said he doesn't know whether the emails … are significant or not. So, let's get it out."
"I'm confident, whatever they are, will not change the conclusion reached in July," she said, referring to Comey's closure of the agency's investigation — without recommendation prosecution — of her use of her private email server while she was secretary of state.
Taking only three questions from the media afterward, Clinton said she was blindsided by the FBI's announcement it was reviewing the newly discovered emails.
"We have not been contacted by anyone," she said, adding: "So we don't know the facts which is why we are calling on the FBI to release all the information that it has. Even Director Comey noted that this new information may not be significant."
Clinton wouldn't confirm reports that the emails were linked to her top aide Huma Abedin and her estranged husband, former congressman Anthony Weiner, calling them "rumors."
"We have heard these rumors. We don't know what to believe," Clinton said. "I'm sure there will be even more rumors. That's why it is incumbent upon the FBI to tell us what they're talking about. … Because right now, you're guess is as good as mine. And I don't think that's good enough."
"So we have made it very clear that if they're going to be sending this kind of letter that is only going originally to Republican members of the House, that they need to share whatever facts they claim to have with the American people. And that's what I expect to happen."
Clinton also dismissed whether the revelation would fuel voters' suspicions about whether she can be trusted.
"I think people a long time ago made up their minds about the emails," she said. "I think that's factored in to what people think and now they are choosing a president."           © 2022 Newsmax. All rights reserved.         