                                 	Yesterday, major health-insurance company Humana announced that it would pull out of the Obamacare exchanges in 2018, the first large insurer to announce its plan to withdraw from the exchanges entirely for next year. Last year, Humana reduced its participation in the healthcare exchanges set up by the Affordable Care Act (ACA), participating in only eleven states rather than 15 for 2017. But now, the company cites a lack of stability in the marketplace, leading to this new decision. “Based on its initial analysis of data associated with the company’s healthcare exchange membership following the 2017 open enrollment period, Humana is seeing further signs of an unbalanced risk pool,” the company’s statement said.
This year, Humana is covering about 150,000 people through the Obamacare exchanges. This latest announcement follows a trend that began last year, as major insurer after major insurer pulled out of the exchanges for 2017, and those that remained increased their premiums by an average of 25 percent.
Meanwhile, this morning the CEO of another major insurance company, Aetna, said in an interview at a Wall Street Journal event that the Obamacare markets are in a “death spiral.” Though he wouldn’t comment on whether or not Aetna will completely pull out of the exchanges for 2018, CEO Mark Bertolini stated emphatically that many regions will likely totally lack Obamacare insurer options for the coming year.
This latest news on the continued collapse of the Obamacare exchanges increases the pressure on the GOP and the Trump administration to push through a repeal and replace plan that limits the damage of the Affordable Care Act as much as possible.
The Trump administration this morning proposed a rule that, in part, would alter the existing ACA regulations in order to stabilize its insurance marketplaces until Congress can settle on a repeal — and possibly even a replacement — plan. Two congressional Republicans, Kentucky senator Rand Paul and South Carolina representative Mark Sanford, are expected to unveil an Obamacare replacement bill today that would lift restrictions on insurers and provide tax breaks to Americans who purchase healthcare.                       	Recommended          	NBC's 'Cataclysmic' Olympics-Coverage Flop     How can anyone feel good about these Olympics?              	Joe Biden Doesn’t Know What You’re Talking About     To watch Biden at the lectern was to experience shock and dismay interspersed with moments of alarm and dark humor. No wonder he hides from the media.              	Nikole Hannah-Jones Responds to Our 1619 and Slavery Issue     She reacted with a lot of sneering and ad hominem argumentation and nothing of substance.              	Maskless Super Bowl Marks Our Return to Normalcy     This collective moment was a warning to the Covid regime that its strictures won’t stand much longer.              	The Perfect Storm Is Coming     Not learning from the stagflationary past may lead to a stagflationary future.              	The Afghanistan Debacle Looks Worse and Worse     The more we learn about the administration’s withdrawal, the more it becomes clear that its decisions were driven by political considerations and panic.       	The Latest          	Nikki Haley Blasts American-Born Skier Competing for China at Beijing Olympics     'Every athlete needs to know when they put their flag on, you're standing for freedom or you're standing for human rights abuses,' said Haley.              	San Francisco Voters Overwhelmingly Back Recall of Progressive School-Board Members     More than 70 percent of voters supported the ouster of school board members Alison Collins, Gabriela López, and Faauuga Moliga.               How Georgetown Is Stifling Speech on Campus     The university is implementing the academic analog of a SLAPP suit against Ilya Shapiro.              	McKinsey Website Contradicts Denials of Chinese-Government Work; Rubio Claims ‘Cover-Up’     The consultancy once said it did work for China’s central government, undercutting recent statements.               	Imagine a Trumpdeau. You Can’t     If Trump had gone after the 2020 rioters the way Trudeau is targeting truckers, the institutions and the permanent government wouldn’t have complied.              	Building Back Stagflation     Our elected leaders must accept that inflation is a monster of their own making, and stop fanning the flames with ever-higher levels of government spending.        