           The House Freedom Caucus did a "grave disservice" to its own party's agenda by holding out against the American Health Care Act, but President Donald Trump should let others go after the conservative group, former White House Deputy Chief of Staff Karl Rove said Thursday.
"That's punching down," Rove told Fox News' "America's Newsroom" anchor Bill Hemmer. "He ought to be focused on other things."
Rove also sounded out against the Freedom Caucus in an opinion piece for The Wall Street Journal Wednesday, saying that the "only lines crossed during this debacle were breached by the Freedom Caucusers, who committed political libel against their Republican colleagues, stopped the legislative process dead in its tracks, and saved Obamacare."
Hemmer told Rove that he was saying what Trump said in a tweet Thursday morning, when he called for a fight against the Freedom Caucus members who opposed the healthcare reform act, and Rove agreed.
"But I wish he wasn't punching down," Rove told him.
The political strategist also disagreed with Freedom Caucus founding member Rep. Jim Jordan, R-Ohio, who earlier on the program commented that his group opposed the bill because it was against the caucus' mission to "change Washington." "We appreciate the president, we're trying to help the president. But look at the legislation. It doesn't do what we told the voters we were going to do," said Jordan.
The AHCA, he continued, "keeps Washington the same plain and simple. It doesn't repeal Obamacare or lower premiums and most importantly it doesn't unite Republicans, in that 17 percent of the country supports this legislation."
"With all due respect to Jim Jordan, that was jaw-dropping," said Rove. "You heard him compare it to Obamacare. He says it doesn't repeal Obamacare. Wait a minute, it kills a trillion in Obamacare taxes and kills the exchanges and stops the Medicaid expansion, dead, gone."
The legislation also kills the employer mandate, said Rove.
"Then what gets me is he says, well, it will have premium increases." said Rove. "Why does it have premium increases in it? Because it continues the Obamacare exchanges for two more years and the exchanges are broken and they'll have year after year of premium increases."
Jordan, said Rove, voted for a repeal bill that would have taken two years to phase out the Obamacare exchanges, and would have carried with it two years of premium increases.
Meanwhile, the Republican bill is the only one to reduce premiums, as under that bill, "We get rid of the exchanges."
It would be okay for Trump to ramp up the pressure, continued Rove, but it would be better for him to do it in private than in public, because the Freedom Caucus in public will fight to keep from appearing to cave on the issue.
Pressure from the lawmakers' colleagues would also work, and possibly be even more powerful than Trump's tweets, said Rove.
Rove also commented on Trump's decision to hire daughter Ivanka for an unpaid role in the West Wing, saying she has a background that "can match up with a lot of people," but at the same time, "you don't want to hire people you can't fire."
"This is now the second family member in the West Wing," said Rove, as Trump's daughter is married to senior adviser Jared Kushner.
"That's a problem," said Rove. "She'll have to go through some gyrations to conform with the ethics rule, which she absolutely must conform with."           © 2022 Newsmax. All rights reserved.         