EU leaders have set up a titanic showdown with Theresa May after they rushed to dismiss key UK demands within hours of the historic Article 50 letter being delivered.In a day of high political drama, the Prime Minister was cheered to the rafters by Tory MPs in the Commons as she declared that her envoy Sir Tim Barrow had handed the formal Brexit notification to European Council president Donald Tusk in the Belgian capital.Giving an upbeat assessment of the country's prospects once it regains control after 44 years tied to the EU, Mrs May stressed she wanted to forge a 'deep and special special' bond with our old partners.But the letter also included chilling threats about the 'fragile' condition of the bloc, making clear that giving Britain a bad deal would be a 'costly mistake' causing serious damage to the EU's own prosperity and security.The tensions between the two sides were underlined when German Chancellor Angela Merkel flatly rejected Mrs May's call for the talks on a mooted £50billion divorce bill to happen at the same time as negotiations on a future trade deal.Outgoing French president Francois Hollande upped the stakes with a warning Brexit would be 'economically painful'. The point of no return for Brexit was reached at 12.20pm today UK time, as the handover between Sir Tim and Mr Tusk happened at his HQ in Brussels.Mrs May's confirmation that the deed had been done, fully nine months after the referendum, was greeted with cheers of approval in the jam-packed Commons chamber. Meanwhile, outside parliament Europhile protesters were still vainly demanding a rethink.European Council president Donald Tusk was handed the historic Article 50 letter by the UK's representative Sir Tim Barrow in Brussels todayMPs roared their approval as Theresa May arrived at the Commons today for PMQs. She told the House that triggering Article 50 was a 'great turning point' for the country  Sir Tim handed the letter bearing Mrs May's signature to Mr Tusk at around 12.20pm UK time, taking us past the point of no return on Brexit On another day of intense political action:Mrs May told MPs there is now 'no turning back' from the decision to leave the EU, and said it was an opportunity to forge a country that 'works for everyone not the privileged few'. Donald Tusk voiced sadness at the formal notification and urged people not to 'pretend it is a happy day'. He insisted the EU would negotiate 'as one' and act to 'preserve our interests'. The PM's letter put the government on a collision course with Brussels by demanding that the divorce arrangements should be discussed at the same time as a future trade deal. The EU's chief negotiator Michel Barnier is preparing to present the UK with a £50billion bill and is arguing that it should be settled before other issues are considered.German Chancellor Angela Merkel flatly dismissed the prospect of the negotiations being carried out in parallel, insisting the first task was to 'disentangle our interlinked relationship'. Mrs May warned that the EU was 'fragile' and could put its own survival at stake if it treated the UK badly, hinting that Britain could reduce cooperation over security and terrorism.Downing Street risked infuriating Tory Eurosceptics by indicating that there will be no restrictions on EU migrants or welfare before we formally leave the bloc in 2019.The PM cautioned Brussels against forcing the introduction of a 'hard border' between Northern Ireland and the Republic, pointing out that would put the peace agreement at risk.Mrs May told the House of Commons that she was 'giving effect to the democratic will of the UK people'.'The Article 50 process is now underway... In accordance with the wishes of the people, the United Kingdom is leaving the EU.'This is a historic moment from which there can be no turning back.'She added: 'At moments like this, a great turning point in our nation's story, the choices we make will define the character of our nation.'We can choose to say the task will be too great, we can choose to turn our face to the past and say it can't be done.'Or we can look forward and in believe in the enduring power of the British spirit.'I choose to believe in Britain and that our best days are to come.'  MAY REFUSES TO COMMIT TO SIGNIFICANT DROP IN IMMIGRATION TO UK POST-BREXIT Theresa May has admitted that immigration to Britain will not come down until after the UK has left the EU in 2019 - but refused to commit to a 'significant' drop.Asked if net migration would come down considerably, the Prime Minister told the BBC's Andrew Neil that there were 'so many variables' that influenced the situation.However May did insist that the UK would 'see a difference in the number of people coming in' after Britain finally leaves the bloc in March 2019. She said: 'For a lot of people when they voted last year immigration was one of the issues. Now obviously we want to see net migration coming down.Theresa May has refused to commit to a significant reduction in immigration once Britain has left the European Union'Now, when we leave [the bloc] we’ll be able to put rules in place decided here about the basis on which people can come from inside the European Union.'Asked if this meant immigration would be significantly lower after Brexit, May said: Well, I think what we will see a difference in the number of people coming in.'But I was Home Secretary for six years and when you look at immigration you constantly have to look at this issue because there are so many variables.'What we will be able to do, as a result of leaving the EU, is to have control of our borders, is to set those rules for people coming from outside.'We haven’t been able to do that so we’ll be able to have control on those numbers, set the rules for that, as we’ve been able to set the rules for others in the past.'  German Chancellor Angela Merkel has flatly rejected Mrs May's call for divorce talks and trade negotiations to be held at the same time, saying the two sides must 'disentangle' before forging a new relationshipSir Tim delivering the letter to Mr Tusk at the council HQ in Brussels today confirmed that we are walking away from the EU Downing Street released an image of the letter to Mr Tusk invoking the process for taking the UK out of the Brussels club The historic six-page letter launching the break-up process was handed over more than nine months after the people delivered their verdict in the EU referendum.It confirmed that Britain will be leaving the single market, but called for a broad free trade agreement, and urges an early deal to guarantee rights for EU nationals already here and Britons living on the continent. The missive also included a chilling warning to Brussels against trying to take revenge on the UK for leaving. KEY POINTS IN THE LETTER PAVING THE WAY FOR OUR POST-BREXIT FUTURETheresa May has triggered Article 50 today, meaning Britain will leave the EU in two years' time. This is what has happened so far: ON THE DIVORCE BILL: In her letter, the PM said she wanted the divorce settlement with the EU - which could include a hotly-disputed £50billion payment demand - negotiated in parallel with a future trade deal. This is a flashpoint with the EU as its leaders say the settlement must be sorted out first.ON SECURITY: Significantly, Mrs May linked Britain's security contribution to Europe with a future trade deal. No 10 say this is a statement of fact but it will be seen in Europe as a threat.ON NORTHERN IRELAND: Mrs May warned Brussels against forcing the introduction of a hard border between Northern Ireland and the Republic. Although that will now by the UK's land border with the EU, such a move could undermine the peace agreement.ON EU NATIONALS' RIGHTS AND IMMIGRATION: The PM made clear that one of her main priorities is getting an early deal on reciprocal rights for EU citizens in Britain and vice versa. She stopped short of setting a cut-off point for EU migrant, with signs that free movement will stay in place until we leave in 2019.  'At a time when the growth of global trade is slowing and there are signs that protectionist instincts are on the rise in many parts of the world, Europe has a responsibility to stand up for free trade in the interest of all our citizens,' the letter said. 'Likewise, Europe's security is more fragile today than at any time since the end of the Cold War. 'Weakening our cooperation for the prosperity and protection of our citizens would be a costly mistake.' In a clear threat about the consequences of trying to punish the UK for leaving, Mrs May wrote: 'If we leave the EU without an agreement the default position is that we would have to trade on World Trade Organisation terms.'In security terms a failure to reach agreement would mean our cooperation in the fight against crime and terrorism would be weakened. 'In this kind of scenario, both the United Kingdom and the European Union would of course cope with the change, but it is not the outcome that either side should seek. We must therefore work hard to avoid that outcome.' Mrs May told MPs the UK was preparing for all outcomes from the talks. She has stressed that she will walk away from the table if the EU does not offer a good deal.'Government will be working across all departments to ensure that we have preparations in place whatever the outcome will be,' she told the House.'But as I made clear in my letter to (Donald) Tusk, that while both the European Union and the UK could cope if there was no agreement, that would not be the ideal situation, it is not what we will be working for and we should be actively working to get the right and proper deal for both sides.' In an interview with the BBC's Andrew Neil tonight, Mrs May reiterated arguments tested in more than three hours in front of MPs.She said the UK's involvement in Europol would be 'part of the package' up for negotiation with the EU.And she refused to be drawn on whether the UK could agree to a huge divorce bill, although she did insist we would not pay huge sums year after year. Mrs May also refused to promise that immigration will fall dramatically after Brexit, merely stating that levels are currently too high.She admitted transitional periods would be needed - including potentially on free movement from Europe - after 2019.Asked if free movement would end within two years, Mrs May replied: 'We want to have the agreements done in two years. There may then be a period when we are implementing those arrangements.' The Premier said: 'What voters wanted to know what was the UK Government was taking control of our borders.' Mrs May dismissed the Vote Leave promise - famously painted on Boris Johnson's campaign bus - to plough £350million into the NHS, telling Neil: 'Points were made on both sides of the argument.'We are now at the point where we are putting things into practice.' Mrs May added: 'I did campaign for Remain and I did vote to Remain but I also said I didn't think the sky would fall in if we left the European Union and it hasn't.'  Mr Tusk was still wielding the Article 50 letter from Mrs May when he held a press conference in Brussels this afternoon Having confirmed on Twitter that he had received the Article 50 letter, Donald Tusk voiced his sadness by adding: 'We already miss you.'The European Union was swift in its response to Mrs May's letter after it had arrived. Council president Mr Tusk made an immediate jibe on Twitter about the nine months it had taken Mrs May to begin the process.And in a hastily arranged press statement he urged people not to 'pretend this is a happy day in Brussels or London'.He insisted the EU will act 'constructively' but 'as one' and was determined to 'preserve our interests'. Outgoing French president Francois Hollande warned that the outcome would be 'painful' for Britain.Heralding a potentially titanic clash over the timetabling of negotiations, German Chancellor Angela Merkel flatly rejected the PM's call for talks on the divorce and future trade arrangements to be held in parallel.'The negotiations must first clarify how we will disentangle our interlinked relationship... and only when this question is dealt with, can we, hopefully soon after, begin talking about our future relationship,' Mrs Merkel said in Berlin.French President Francois Hollande struck a tough tone, warning that Brexit would be 'economically painful' for Britain, the first country to leave the bloc. The European Parliament's chief negotiator Guy Verhofstadt reiterated the order the negotiations must take and said MEPs were ready to veto any deal that was considered too generous to the UK. 'We will never accept that the UK is starting trade negotiations with other countries before the withdrawal. Until the withdrawal, the UK is a full member of the EU with all the right but also all the obligations,' he said.'The Parliament need to sign off the final agreement or agreements. Naturally, it will never outside the union be better than inside the union. That is not a question of revenge, that is a question of logic of the European Union, of the European Treaties, of the European project.'  The Commons chamber was packed to the rafters as Mrs May laid out her plan for pushing through the EU divorce Sir Tim, the UK's representative to the EU, passed on the letter at the European Council headquarters in Brussels at around 12.20 British timeMrs May briefed the Cabinet on the task ahead this morning, having put her signature to the letter last night before it was transported to Belgium on the Eurostar by diplomats and guards.The timeline set out in the Lisbon Treaty now means that the UK will officially leave the EU when Big Ben strikes midnight at the end of March 29, 2019. In a bid to spike the guns of nationalists in Scotland, Mrs May told the Commons this afternoon that Edinburgh, Cardiff and Belfast would be stronger after Brexit.She told MPs: 'No decisions currently taken by the devolved administrations will be removed from them.'I expect the devolved administrations will see significant increases in their decision making powers as a result of this process.' In a plea for unity, Mrs May said the UK should be 'no longer defined by the vote we cast, but by our determination to make a success of the result'. 'We are one great union of people and nations with a proud history and a bright future,' she added.'This great national moment needs a great national effort,' she said. Mrs May said Britain would continue to be willing allies and close friends with Europe. She said: 'With European security more fragile today than at any time since the cold war, weakening our cooperation and not standing up for European values would be a costly mistake.'Our decision to leave the European Union was no rejection of European values.' Mrs May's letter to Mr Tusk made clear she was implementing the 'democratic decision' of the referendum and setting out Britain's objectives. The PM is pictured in an interview with Andrew Neil on the BBC tonightThe Prime Minister told the BBC she would not agree to a fresh Scottish independence referendum before Brexit is completeMrs May's letter to Mr Tusk made clear she was implementing the 'democratic decision' of the referendum and setting out Britain's objectives.'We believe that these objectives are in the interests not only of the United Kingdom but of the European Union and the wider world too,' it said.'It is in the best interests of both the United Kingdom and the European Union that we should use the forthcoming process to deliver these objectives in a fair and orderly manner, and with as little disruption as possible on each side.'We want to make sure that Europe remains strong and prosperous and is capable of projecting its values, leading in the world, and defending itself from security threats.  Brexiteers David Davis and Boris Johnson were in the chamber for the PM's statement hailing a bright future for the UKThe Commons was packed for PMQs today, which was followed by Mrs May's historic statement on triggering Article 50'We want the United Kingdom, through a new deep and special partnership with a strong European Union, to play its full part in achieving these goals.'In the first sign of potential controversy, Mrs May said Britain believed it was 'necessary' to negotiate the future trade deal alongside the divorce - something the EU does not agree with. POUND HOLDS FIRM AS PM TRIGGERS BREXIT PROCESS  The pound was virtually unchanged against the US dollarThe pound held firm against the dollar and the euro as Theresa May triggered Brexit today and gave a rousing speech about the UK's bright future.On the day Article 50 was invoked the pound was virtually unchanged against the US dollar at 1.24 and was up against the euro at 1.15.The response came as the Prime Minister told the Commons: 'This is a historic moment from which there can be no turning back'.The FTSE 100 index rose 30 points or 0.41 per cent to 7,373.72. She said: 'The Government wants to approach our discussions with ambition, giving citizens and businesses in the United Kingdom and the European Union – and indeed from third countries around the world – as much certainty as possible, as early as possible.' The letter also urged the EU to avoid putting Britain in a situation where the fluid border between Northern Ireland and the Republic was at risk - pointing out that could imperil the peace process. 'The Republic of Ireland is the only EU member state with a land border with the United Kingdom,' it said. 'We want to avoid a return to a hard border between our two countries, to be able to maintain the Common Travel Area between us, and to make sure that the UK's withdrawal from the EU does not harm the Republic of Ireland. We also have an important responsibility to make sure that nothing is done to jeopardise the peace process in Northern Ireland, and to continue to uphold the Belfast Agreement.' The Prime Minister's official spokesman denied the Prime Minister was making an agreement on trade dependent on security, or that the inclusion of the two factors was a threat. He said: 'It is a simple statement of fact.'The spokesman said any future security arrangement, or its collapse in the event of no deal, only related to EU institutions such as the European Arrest Warrant or Europol.Nato and most intelligence sharing is not changed by EU membership, he said.Mrs May's spokesman said the Government remained eager to agree a deal on citizens' rights as soon as possible.But he risked infuriating Tory Eurosceptics by signalling that free movement could continue unfettered until March 2019.He said: 'We wish to get an early deal in relation to residency rights and all other matters in relation to that.'The fact is we are going to honour our obligations while we are full members of the European Union.' Former Ukip leader Nigel Farage celebrated the formal notification that we are leaving the EU with a pint at a pub in Westminster this afternoonMeanwhile jubilant Ukip MEPs staged a party in Brussels to mark the beginning of the end for our EU membershipMrs May remains committed to negotiating the divorce deal and the future arrangements in parallel – within the two year time frame.Her spokesman said this was set out within the terms of Article 50, despite the EU's insistence today the two things must be negotiated in sequence. DON'T PUT NORTHERN IRELAND PEACE IN JEOPARDY, WARNS PM  Theresa May's letter urged the EU not to put Britain in a position where the fluid border between Northern Ireland and the Republic is at risk.The missive to Donald Tusk pointed out that changing the arrangements could imperil the peace process.'The Republic of Ireland is the only EU member state with a land border with the United Kingdom,' it said. 'We want to avoid a return to a hard border between our two countries, to be able to maintain the Common Travel Area between us, and to make sure that the UK's withdrawal from the EU does not harm the Republic of Ireland. 'We also have an important responsibility to make sure that nothing is done to jeopardise the peace process in Northern Ireland, and to continue to uphold the Belfast Agreement.' He said: 'We wish to get a comprehensive agreement. We are negotiating for a full and comprehensive agreement.' Sat in the cabinet office of Downing Street, May last night signed her name under the watchful eye of Sir Robert Walpole, the country's first ever Prime Minister.Afterwards she telephoned Mr Tusk, along with German Chancellor Angela Merkel and European Commission President Jean-Claude Juncker to inform them about her approach.A Downing Street spokesman said: 'In separate calls, they agreed that a strong EU was in everyone's interests and that the UK would remain a close and committed ally.'They also agreed on the importance of entering into negotiations in a constructive and positive spirit, and of ensuring a smooth and orderly exit process.'The exact location of the handover of the letter was kept a closely-guarded secret amid fears of disruption by Europhiles.It has emerged that Britain will obey Brussels free movement rules for up to two more years.Ministers had considered using the official notification as a 'cut-off point', denying new EU arrivals the automatic right to stay here. But sources last night confirmed that this idea had been dropped and the timing of the cut-off will form part of the Brexit negotiations.The decision on free movement last night raised fears of a rush by EU migrants to beat the deadline.A government source insisted the Prime Minister had not avoided an early confrontation with Brussels in order to ease the opening of negotiations.'We have not ducked anything,' the source said. 'The fact is that we have not got a reciprocal deal on the rights of citizens abroad so we cannot set a date for the start of a new system.'Another source said the Home Office was concerned about the practical difficulties of enforcing a cut-off date before the introduction of a new post-Brexit immigration regime. Sir Tim Barrow arrived at the European Council building in Brussels at 8.51am British time, carrying a diplomatic bag that contained the letter Sir Tim had a meeting with other EU ambassadors at the council's HQ in Brussels this morning before delivering the formal notification to Mr Tusk Leading Brexiteer Boris Johnson was in Downing Street for a Cabinet meeting this morning hours before the historic letter was deliveredTheresa May officially invoked Article 50 by signing a letter to EU Council President Donald Tusk in Downing Street last night, under the watchful eye of Britain's first Prime Minister Robert WalpoleSources last night said a date was unlikely to be set until a deal on reciprocal citizen rights has been agreed.The European Parliament yesterday threatened to block a final Brexit deal if the UK tried to introduce a cut-off before its full departure from the EU.A resolution setting out MEPs' demands will be voted on next week and will include a provision for 'non-discrimination' against EU citizens in the UK. ARTICLE 50: WHAT HAPPENS NEXTTheresa May finally triggered Article 50 today and started the process of Britain's departure. The process is irreversible, and our membership will expire on March 29, 2019 even if there is no deal. The EU will issue its first formal response on Friday and the 27 remaining members are set to meet in late April.The first major summit is likely to be later in the spring - but substantive talks could be delayed by elections in Germany in the Autumn.The final deal is expected to emerge by the end of next year in time for a series of votes on ratification Brussels, London and around Europe.If the talks collapse at any point in the two years, Britain could face leaving the EU without a deal at all.While a transitional period is thought likely, Britain will cease to be a full member of the EU at the end of March 29,2019.That will be 1,009 days after polling day in the EU referendum. A source who has seen the document said: 'The Parliament will demand that EU free movement law is applied until the day the UK leaves.' The Article 50 process has never been used before. Ministers believe that, after today, the UK's departure from the organisation it joined in 1973 will be irrevocable.Mr Tusk will set out the EU's 'draft negotiation guidelines' by the end of the week before sending them to the 27 remaining states for consultation.EU leaders will meet on April 29 at an extraordinary European Council summit to agree a mandate for chief negotiator Michel Barnier and clear the way for talks to begin in earnest in May. Mr Hammond risked fuelling tensions with Cabinet colleagues today by giving a cautious assessment of what the government will be able to negotiate from Brussels. 'We've already made it clear that we accept that, because of our requirements, because of the requirements the British people specified in the referendum result, we will not be members of the European single market, we will not be full members of the European customs union and not being members of those entities has some consequences, it carries some significance and the European Union understands that,' he said.'I think the fact that we set that out very clearly has sent a clear signal to our European partners that we understand that we can't cherry pick, we can't have our cake and eat it, that by deciding to leave the European Union and negotiate a future relationship with the EU as an independent nation, there will be certain consequences of that and we accept those.'But Mr Hammond voiced confidence that the UK would create a new 'special relationship' with the EU encompassing trade, security and education.'I am very confident that we will not get an outcome which would be a worst-case outcome for everybody. That would be ridiculous,' he said. 'We are going to get a deal. The question is about the shape and nature of that deal.'Jeremy Corbyn ramped up the pressure on the PM by saying it will be a 'failure of historic proportions' if she does not manage to protect jobs and living standards in the negotiation.'The British people made the decision to leave the European Union and Labour respects that decision,' the Labour leader said.'Britain is going to change as a result. The question is how. The Conservatives want to use Brexit to turn our country into a low wage tax haven. Labour is determined to ensure we can rebuild and transform Britain, so no one and no community is left behind.'It will be a national failure of historic proportions if the Prime Minister comes back from Brussels without having secured protection for jobs and living standards.' Former Lib Dem leader Nick Clegg was flanked by Tory MP Nicky Morgan and Labour's Chris Leslie at the protest today Prime Minister Theresa May left Downing Street for the House of Commons just after 11am today, carrying her folder of briefing notesFormer Lib Dem leader Nick Clegg told BBC Radio 4's Today programme the government was making 'preposterous' claims about what it could achieve.He said today the 'phony war' would end and the public would start to see what Brexit really means.Mr Clegg lambasted Labour for refusing to vote against legislation authorising Article 50. MORE THAN 50,000 EU LAWS TO BE PUT ON UK STATUTE BOOKS  The government is set to enshrine more than 50,000 EU laws into the domestic statute books, research has revealed.Figures from Thomson Reuters, show some 52,741 pieces of Brussels legislation have been passed since 1990 alone.They are set to be transposed into UK law as part of the Great Repeal Bill, which is being unveiled tomorrow. 'You can only hold the government to account if you are prepared to vote against the government,' he said.French presidential favourite Emmanuel Macron said he did not want to 'punish' Britain. 'The question is not to punish the UK for a vote made by British people,' he said at a meeting with London Mayor Sadiq Khan in Paris.'My priority will be to protect the European Union, the interests of the European Union, and the interests of European citizens.'And my deep wish is to have Great Britain with the European Union in another relationship.'I think especially on defence matters it's important to work together.' The EU's chief negotiator Michel Barnier, on a visit to Valetta, said today was the start of a 'very long and difficult road'. But far-right French presidential candidate Marine Le Pen has warned that the EU 'undeniably' intends to punish Britain over Brexit and the bloc wants the split to be 'as painful as possible'.The National Front leader, who is standing on a fiercely anti-Brussels ticket, said European leaders could 'feel' other members want to break away and want to avoid a 'domino effect'.The landmark document (pictured) will be handed over by Britain's EU ambassador Sir Tim Barrow and represents the first act of an irreversible Brexit processHowever, speaking to BBC's Newsnight, Ms Le Pen said she expected Britain to ultimately secure a good deal during negotiations to leave the EU, which formally begin on Wednesday.Asked if the UK will be punished for triggering Article 50, she said: 'That's undeniably the intention of the EU. The EU wants the divorce to be as painful as possible. That's simply because they can feel that other nations of Europe want to leave this political structure.'They don't want a domino effect. Blackmail didn't work, project fear didn't work either. So they have to try to make the separation as painful as possible. Will they succeed? I don't think so.'Ms Le Pen said Britain's position will be favourable after leaving the EU as it will be able to protect itself from 'uncontrolled globalisation'. AS THE BREXIT TALKS BEGIN, MEET THE KEY PLAYERS ON BOTH SIDES TEAM UK David DavisThe Brexit Secretary is a veteran of EU battles. He was Europe Minister under John Major before a long spell in the wilderness on the back benches.His EU shadow in the 1990s was Michel Barnier and the pair will now face off again in the talks to come. Oliver RobbinsOliver Robbins is Britain's most senior un-elected diplomat. He is Mr Davis's permanent secretary and will be the Brexit Secretary's right hand man.A civil service high flyer, he works as Mrs May's 'sherpa' at summits and is tipped for the top. Sir Tim Barrow Britain's EU ambassador was dropped into the job at short notice earlier this year after his predecessor resigned.A veteran of diplomacy in Russia, Sir Tim has been a high flyer during a long career. He will be one of Mrs May's closest advisers in the talks. TEAM EUROPEMichel BarnierThe European Commission's chief negotiator will be the public face of the EU's talks. He has struck a tough position from the outset.Mr Barnier knows David Davis well from their time sparring in the 1990s during Maastricht battles. Sabine WeyandA little known German official, Sabine Weyand is a senior trade deal negotiator for the EU. She has experience Britain lacks.Ms Weyand will be across detail and the UK delegation will have to take care not to be left behind. Guy Verhofstadt The chief negotiator for the European Parliament may appear a fringe player at the start but he will be a loud presence in the media.Later, the European Parliament holds a veto on the final deal - meaning Verhofstadt must be squared.  Remoaners warn the 'phony war' will be over once Article 50 is triggered as rebels led by Nick Clegg step up resistance to BrexitNick Clegg warned the 'phony war' against Brexit was over with the triggering of Article 50 as remoaners stepped up their campaign.Opponents of quitting the EU are camped out around the Palace of Westminster today to demand Theresa May secure the softest Brexit possible.Protests were held to mark the historic day ahead of the crucial moment at around 12.30pm. Former Deputy PM Nick Clegg warned the 'phony war' against Brexit was over with the triggering of Article 50 as remoaners stepped up their campaignFormer deputy prime minister Mr Clegg told Talk Radio:'The phony war now ends and the reality bites, because we have to negotiate with 27 other governments and parliaments, all with their own needs and priorities.'From now on in, people like Boris Johnson, Michael Gove, and Nigel Farage, making all these promises and expectations of a utopia – they'll have to deliver it.'He added: 'My job regarding the British people is the expectations which have been raised, £350 million for the NHS, a cornucopia of new trade deals, the same benefits outside the single market than in – my job is to hold them to account.' Gloomy Donald Tusk responds to Britain's Article 50 letter with a warning that Brexit is little more than a test of 'damage control'Donald Tusk has insisted this is not a 'happy day' in London or Brussels in a gloomy response to Britain's Article 50 letter.The EU council president said the Brexit process would be about 'damage control' for both sides.In his initial response to the letter from Theresa May, Mr Tusk warned of 'difficult negotiations' in the months ahead.He vowed to protect the interests of the remaining 27 EU members but insisted there was nothing to 'win' for either side.And he said: 'What can I add to this? We already miss you.'  Donald Tusk has insisted this is not a 'happy day' in London or Brussels in a gloomy response to Britain's Article 50 letterIn a brief statement in Brussels, Mr Tusk said: 'There is no reason to pretend this is a happy day, neither in Brussels nor in London.After all, most Europeans including almost half the British voters wished we would stay together not drift apart. As for me, I will not pretend that I am happy today.'But paradoxically, there is also something positive in Brexit. Brexit has made us, the community of 27, more determined and more united than before.'I am fully confident of this, especially after the Rome declaration. We will remain determined and united during the difficult negotiations ahead. Theresa May's Article 50 letter vows to bring home the nation's 'self determination' to make sure we 'put our citizens first'This is Britain's divorce letter to Brussels that today triggered Article 50 and promised to seize back 'self-determination' from the EU so the UK can 'put our citizens first'.The six-page document reveals that Theresa May will withdraw full cooperation on cross-border crime, security and terrorism unless Europe does a trade deal that suits Britain. The historic letter was handed to European Council president Donald Tusk in Brussels by Theresa May's envoy Sir Tim Barrow at 12.30pm today after crossing the Channel by train under armed guard.In it Mrs May told Mr Tusk he must not to punish the UK for choosing to leave the EU and also confirms that the government will pay Brussels a multi-billion pound bill to leave. Theresa May's Article 50 letter was handed over personally by Britain's EU ambassador Sir Tim Barrow to EU Council President Donald Tusk The Prime Minister also sets out six key areas for negotiation over the next two years - and repeatedly warns that the EU needs to do a trade deal - telling Mr Tusk it would be a 'costly mistake' not to.And in an attempt to save the Union she said more powers should be given to devolved powers in Edinburgh, Cardiff and Belfast and any Brexit deal must not 'harm' the Republic of Ireland. Minutes after the letter was handed over Mrs May told the Commons: 'In accordance with the wishes of the people, the United Kingdom is leaving the EU. This is a historic moment from which there can be no turning back.' At the same time a sombre Donald Tusk held up the letter during a short press conference and said: 'There is no reason to pretend this is a happy day. We already miss you. Thank you and goodbye'.History: This is the letter that triggered Brexit and sets out Britain's key priorities for negotiations over the next two years TORY LEAD GROWS IN BOOST FOR MAY AS SHE TRIGGERS OUR DEPARTURE FROM THE EUTheresa May was boosted today as she triggered Brexit today with a poll showing the Conservative lead over Labour growing.As the PM invoked Article 50, a YouGov survey showed her party up two points to 43 per cent, against Labour on 25 per cent.The Prime Minister has enjoyed double-digit leads for almost the entirety of her premiership to date.Asked who would make the best Prime Minister, just 13 per cent now say Labour leader Jeremy Corbyn - against 51 per cent for Mrs May. Today's YouGov survey shows the Conservatives up two points to 43 per cent, against Labour on 25 per cent 