Democrats & the Mainstream Media Have Changed Their Tune on Comey
Dershowitz: No Plausible Case That Trump Obstructed Justice
Judge Jeanine Pirro said former FBI Director James Comey is a "predator" who sought "revenge" by leaking his private memos about meetings with President Trump.
"He is an operator. He is part of the Washington elite," the judge told the hosts of "Fox & Friends."
The now-fired FBI Director testified to Congress on Thursday, dropping multiple bombshells including that he had leaked private conversations between him and the president in which he said he felt pressured to end the investigation into former national security advisor Michael Flynn.
Pirro commented that Comey comes across as "so wily and so calculating," and said she thinks he was looking to take the president down.
"It's clearly about revenge. This is a setup," she stated, referring to Comey's expressed hope that his leaks would prompt the appointment of a special counsel to investigate the Trump campaign.
Dershowitz: No Plausible Case That Trump Obstructed Justice
Chris Matthews: Trump-Russia Collusion Theory 'Came Apart' in Comey Hearing
'This Is So Stupid': Tucker Battles Dem Lawmakers Over Comey Hearing, Russia Probe
Judge Jeanine also said she believes it is not the first time Comey has leaked to the press.
She said the former FBI director could have but refused to help the politically inexperienced Trump by explaining that it was not appropriate for the president and the FBI director to discuss Flynn being let off easy.
"Wait until my open this weekend," she said, referring to her Opening Statement on "Justice With Judge Jeanine."
Watch the clip above and don't miss "Justice," Saturday at 9pm ET on Fox News Channel; Judge Pirro will also talk to Donald Trump Jr. Friday with Friends on the curvy couch! @foxandfriends pic.twitter.com/fShVqN0HP4
— Jeanine Pirro (@JudgeJeanine) June 9, 2017
'This Is So Stupid': Tucker Battles Dem Lawmakers Over Comey Hearing, Russia Probe
'The Hypocrisy Knows No Bounds': Gohmert Blasts Comey as 'Leaker-in-Chief'
Conway: Rumors of White House Staffing Shakeup Are 'Ridiculous'
