       Go look through leftists’ bios on Twitter. It will be the rare exception where the following hashtags are not included: #Resist, #Resistance, #ResistTrump.
The media loves The Resistance. Loves.
What is the next step to an active resistance? It’s really not complicated: Armed resistance.
The media-Left plasters Coexist bumper stickers on their cars, but as anyone who’s followed a Prius for some distance will tell you, their behavior is anything but tolerant.
Last week, a known leftist terrorist was made the star of a parade. The week before, a comedienne pretended to cut off the head of the President. This week, a theater company pretended the President was Caesar and stabbed him.
Then there’s ANTIFA, the ironically named Anti-Fascists who use fascistic techniques to suppress the speech and free activities of those with whom they disagree.
Don’t forget Black Lives Matter where an armed gunman systematically executed police officers. He was just resisting oppression. And murdering. But mostly resisting.
For years, the Left has lectured about civility — right up and until the election where Donald Trump was challenged about whether he’d accept the election results. Meanwhile, Hillary Clinton opined this at a Manchester rally, “He became the first person, Republican or Democrat, who refused to say that he would respect the results of this election. Now, that is a direct threat to our democracy.”
Since Hillary lost, she’s blamed everyone but herself and has championed Resistance. She’s become a direct threat to our democracy.
In fact, she’s persisted in resisting. The two hashtags #Neverthelessshepersisted and #Resist has been the cri de coeur for the Left and the media, most notably, CNN.
Remember the crosshairs on Sarah Palin’s website? The symbols were blamed for a crazy person shooting Gabby Giffords. It was insane. The media’s behavior was irresponsible and salacious.
Now, when an actual radicalized political Bernie Bro stooge hears the message loud and clear, gets a gun, and seeks out Republican Congress people (and their children) to murder, motives are hazier. The media can’t quite figure out why someone would do such a thing.
Really? When the Mayor of Berkeley refuses to allow the police to stop masked leftist terrorists from looting, burning, robbing, and general violence against Trump supporters, does anyone see a clear message from authorities that it’s open season on the political opposition? Is it a stretch that a political volunteer would take the message to heart? Violence is not only passively allowed, as in Berkeley, but it’s condoned and encouraged from the least activist all the way up to Hillary Clinton herself.
How does that manifest? Shooting baseball playing Congressmen or maybe running them off the road or maybe sending death threats to kill the wife of the elected official. All of these things happened in the last few weeks, by the way.
The violence is not random and it’s not just a crazy person being crazy. In this case, the shooter was overtly political looking for and finding Republicans.
I mean if republicans “are hitler” …who doesn’t think killing Hitler was justified?
— Amy (@AmyOtto8) June 14, 2017
Politics is war by another means, a more peaceful means. Words, not guns.
Ironically, the leftists running around are all about suppressing words and then, when their acts of violence (attacking a Professor with a different point of view, say, which has happened on multiple campuses across the nation) work, it begets more violence.
No students have been expelled because they’ve assaulted a professor.
No professors have been fired for inciting violence.
No looters have been incarcerated for stealing and burning.
The tactics of brutality have worked. And they’ll work in this latest murder attempt by this radicalized Leftist. The Congress people will be more closely guarded. They’ll be further away from the media. They’ll be further from the people they represent. They’ll be isolated.
Meanwhile, in the fevered conspiracy corners on the left, where the more mainstream Democrats and leaders like Hillary Clinton encourage resistance, there will be more violence.
The elites are playing a dangerous game. They’ve been encouraging this violence and feel it’s justified. Their activist arms have been carrying out this messaging in clear terms:
Our statement on the shooting of #SteveScalise and other fascist Republicans: pic.twitter.com/syHAm8UFoH
— Official Antifa (@OfficialAntifa) June 14, 2017
So far, those on the right have been lawful and have not retaliated. And those who have been more aggressive have been rebuked. What happens when people on the right cast off restraint and seek retribution?
The media and the left have been exceedingly flippant about the endgame of their exploitation and inflamed rhetoric. They’ve been callous about the violence perpetrated in their name.
Should a reckoning come, they’ll be shocked and horrified and repelled by the “climate of hate” that they created. But they don’t see what they’ve done. They never do.       