                                 	Regarding Las Vegas, we know very little about the shooter’s motivations, the gun he used in his massacre, and how he acquired said gun, but that hasn’t stopped Hillary Clinton from plowing forward with gun-control talking points. For example:
The crowd fled at the sound of gunshots. Imagine the deaths if the shooter had a silencer, which the NRA wants to make easier to get.
— Hillary Clinton (@HillaryClinton) October 2, 2017
See, none of this would have happened if Republicans hadn’t let Clinton’s gun ban expire. Except that the 1994 law had nothing to do with fully automatic weapons, which fire continuously when the trigger is held. It pertained to semiautomatic weapons (one shot per trigger pull) with certain tactical features such as folding stocks.
Fully automatic weapons are regulated much more strictly; it is illegal to sell a new one. Those owned before 1986 are still in circulation, but they are incredibly expensive owing to limited supply, and the rules for owning them are incredibly strict. They almost never turned up in crimes until now. It’s not clear at this point whether the shooter had one of those pre-1986 guns or achieved automatic fire through some other means, such as by modifying a semiautomatic weapon, which is difficult and illegal, or employing a “bump stock,” which, unwisely in my opinion, is legal.
Soon enough, Newsweek followed up by reporting that this was actually the 274th “mass shooting” in the U.S. this year. At least this time they provided the needed background information: This is a tally from the Gun Violence Archive, which includes any incident where “four or more [are] shot and/or killed in a single event, at the same general time and location not including the shooter.” This is an overly broad definition that even Mother Jones has taken issue with: It “suggests that a 1 a.m. gang fight in a Sacramento restaurant, in which two were killed and two injured, is the same kind of event as a deranged man walking into a community college classroom and massacring nine and injuring nine others.”
There may be lessons for gun policy when all is said and done here. But can’t we hold off on advancing our political agendas until then?                        Recommended          	NBC's 'Cataclysmic' Olympics-Coverage Flop     How can anyone feel good about these Olympics?              	Joe Biden Doesn’t Know What You’re Talking About     To watch Biden at the lectern was to experience shock and dismay interspersed with moments of alarm and dark humor. No wonder he hides from the media.              	Nikole Hannah-Jones Responds to Our 1619 and Slavery Issue     She reacted with a lot of sneering and ad hominem argumentation and nothing of substance.              	Maskless Super Bowl Marks Our Return to Normalcy     This collective moment was a warning to the Covid regime that its strictures won’t stand much longer.              	The Perfect Storm Is Coming     Not learning from the stagflationary past may lead to a stagflationary future.              	The Afghanistan Debacle Looks Worse and Worse     The more we learn about the administration’s withdrawal, the more it becomes clear that its decisions were driven by political considerations and panic.       	The Latest          	Nikki Haley Blasts American-Born Skier Competing for China at Beijing Olympics     'Every athlete needs to know when they put their flag on, you're standing for freedom or you're standing for human rights abuses,' said Haley.              	San Francisco Voters Overwhelmingly Back Recall of Progressive School-Board Members     More than 70 percent of voters supported the ouster of school board members Alison Collins, Gabriela López, and Faauuga Moliga.               How Georgetown Is Stifling Speech on Campus     The university is implementing the academic analog of a SLAPP suit against Ilya Shapiro.              	McKinsey Website Contradicts Denials of Chinese-Government Work; Rubio Claims ‘Cover-Up’     The consultancy once said it did work for China’s central government, undercutting recent statements.               	Imagine a Trumpdeau. You Can’t     If Trump had gone after the 2020 rioters the way Trudeau is targeting truckers, the institutions and the permanent government wouldn’t have complied.              	Building Back Stagflation     Our elected leaders must accept that inflation is a monster of their own making, and stop fanning the flames with ever-higher levels of government spending.        