President Donald Trump endorsed Alabama Senate candidate Roy Moore Monday morning, after hesitation due to the multiple allegations of sexual misconduct against the Republican candidate.Trump tweeted his endorsement for Moore with a number of reasons as to why he believes it is important Moore wins the election against Democratic candidate Doug Jones. Trump said Jones is a “puppet” to Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer as well as House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi in the same tweet. “Democrats refusal to give even one vote for massive Tax Cuts is why we need Republican Roy Moore to win in Alabama,” Trump tweeted. “We need his vote on stopping crime, illegal immigration, Border Wall, Military, Pro Life, V.A., Judges 2nd Amendment and more. No to Jones, a Pelosi/Schumer Puppet!” Democrats refusal to give even one vote for massive Tax Cuts is why we need Republican Roy Moore to win in Alabama. We need his vote on stopping crime, illegal immigration, Border Wall, Military, Pro Life, V.A., Judges 2nd Amendment and more. No to Jones, a Pelosi/Schumer Puppet! — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) December 4, 2017  “Putting Pelosi/Schumer Liberal Puppet Jones into office in Alabama would hurt our great Republican Agenda of low on taxes, tough on crime, strong on military and borders…& so much more,” Trump tweeted again. “Look at your 401-k’s since Election. Highest Stock Market EVER! Jobs are roaring back!”  Putting Pelosi/Schumer Liberal Puppet Jones into office in Alabama would hurt our great Republican Agenda of low on taxes, tough on crime, strong on military and borders…& so much more. Look at your 401-k’s since Election. Highest Stock Market EVER! Jobs are roaring back! — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) December 4, 2017  Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell completely changed his stance on Moore Sunday after previously calling for Moore to step out of the race. McConnell said that it is up to the people of Alabama to make the decision on whether the Republican candidate is fit to serve in the senate. (RELATED: McConnell Changes His Stance On Roy Moore [VIDEO]) Moore has now been accused of sexually assaulting nine women, many of whom were minors at the time. A large number of Republicans have called for Moore to drop out of the race but he continues to deny all of the allegations against him and has vowed to remain in the race. The Alabama election between Moore and Jones will be held on December 12. Follow Henry Rodgers On Twitter Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience. For licensing opportunities of our original content, please contact licensing@dailycallernewsfoundation.org. 