  	Emmanuel Macron is preparing to award all-expenses-paid grants for U.S. scientists to relocate to France, as part of the French leader’s attack on U.S. president Donald Trump’s climate policies.
The globalist French premiere will on Monday evening unveil winners of the Make Our Planet Great Again competition, which he conceived in June after Trump made the decision to withdraw the U.S. from the Paris climate agreement. In an address from the Elysée Palace, shortly after the U.S. president’s announcement, Macron urged scientists who were annoyed with the move to “come to France and work with us together” on climate policy-related research.
Around 50 projects out of a shortlist of 90 will be chosen for the grants, which will be funded by the state, according to the Associated Press, which reported that some French researchers are unhappy about the president’s decision to fund people from abroad at a time when funding for domestic projects is lacking.
While the majority of candidates who entered are from the U.S., the competition for research grants was expanded to include climate scientists from other countries outside of France.
Sadiq Khan Tells Everyone Who Doesn’t Like Trump: Move to London https://t.co/YcvLk0Khh0 pic.twitter.com/XgR0ypbt6B
— Breitbart London (@BreitbartLondon) November 17, 2016
While Macron’s attacks on Trump over the Paris agreement were hailed by an admiring French and international media, the Guardian reported that the French leader’s “tough stance” may have “backfired”, and likely prompted the U.S. leader to remind people he “was elected to serve the citizens of Pittsburgh — not Paris”
Speaking in the Rose Garden after his announcement that the U.S. would be leaving the Paris agreement, President Trump said that the accord signed by the Obama administration in 2015 without the consent of Congress “disadvantages the United States to the exclusive benefit of other countries”
“In order to fulfill my solemn duty to protect America and its citizens, the United States will withdraw from the Paris Climate Accord,” Trump said at the time, explaining the agreement would have left American taxpayers having to “absorb the cost in terms of lost jobs, lower wages, shuttered factories, and vastly diminished economic production.”  