
Breitbart CEO and former White House chief strategist Steve Bannon was widely mocked and blamed Wednesday after Alabama Senate candidate Roy Moore’s devastating loss to Democrat Doug Jones. Bannon was one of the Republican's earliest and most vocal supporters, campaigning for him both before and after the allegations of sexual misconduct surfaced. As Matt already noted in his post on the election results, Matt Drudge was quick to point out that “Luther Strange would have won in a landslide… Just too much crazy in nerve racking times. There IS a limit!”Strange was President Trump’s preferred candidate in the primary race, leading many to point their finger back at Bannon for the whole debacle. “This is a brutal reminder that candidate quality matters regardless of where you are running,” Steve Law, president of the Senate Leadership Fund, said in a statement. “Not only did Steve Bannon cost us a critical Senate seat in one of the most Republican states in the country, but he also dragged the President of the United States into his fiasco.”Daily Wire editor in chief Ben Shapiro, a former Breitbart editor, also weighed in: “Bannon’s sure showing those establishment cucks a thing or two right now,” he wrote.As did Dana Loesch, a talk radio host, author, and NRA spokeswoman: "Cam [sic] we stop now with the “Bannon is a masterful strategist” nonsense? I’ve never seen such descriptions used more and deserved less,” she said on Twitter. “Next time maybe Bannon will won’t fight Trump’s primary endorsement out of ego and cost the GOP a senate seat.” Josh Holmes, former chief of staff and campaign manager to Senate Majority Leader Leader Mitch McConnell, tweeted: “Before we get the results, I'd just like to thank Steve Bannon for showing us how to lose the reddest state in the union and Governor Ivey for the opportunity to make this national embarrassment a reality.”Meanwhile Megan McCain, co-host of “The View” and daughter of Sen. John McCain, simply had this to say: “Suck it Bannon.” 
