
As families gather to celebrate Christmas today, it's important to remember those serving overseas and unable to make it home for the holiday season. On Sunday President Trump hosted a teleconference with U.S. troops stationed around the world, including in Kuwait, Qatar, Guantanamo Bay and on the USS Sampson, to thank them for their service and to wish them a Merry Christmas. "I just want to wish everybody a very, very merry Christmas, we say Merry Christmas, again, very, very proudly. Very very merry Christmas. We’re going to have a great year, an incredible year. I’m thrilled to bring seasons greetings on behalf of the first lady and our entire family and most importantly, on behalf of the American people. Today and every day we’re incredibly thankful for you and for your families. Your families have been tremendous. Always underappreciated, military families, the greatest people on earth,” Trump said according to the White House pool report. “As we celebrate this most precious holiday, we’re grateful for each of you who spend this Christmas away from our families and defend all of our families, our freedom and our flag. Every American heart is thankful and we’re asking God to watch over you and to watch over your families,” he continued. Media covering his initial remarks was ushered out of the room so the President could have a personal conversation with the individuals on the call. This Christmas Eve, President Trump talked with members of the U.S. military via video teleconference. All five branches of the military are represented during the call with troops from various bases around the world. pic.twitter.com/GN0cqC8asV— The White House (@WhiteHouse) December 24, 2017Vice President Mike Pence made a surprise visit to Afghanistan last week. No matter your belief may you find renewed strength this season. For all who in the coming days will look to a manger & claim the promise announced on a Holy Night of peace on Earth & good will toward men-from the First Family, my family & families across America: Merry Christmas pic.twitter.com/mSgr7nDaUl— Vice President Mike Pence (@VP) December 23, 2017I told our troops in Afghanistan that under this Commander-in-Chief and because of their courage, I believe with all my heart that Afghanistan will be free and America will be safe, and we'll WIN this fight. pic.twitter.com/gMTJ8CvF61— Vice President Mike Pence (@VP) December 22, 2017
