      	The White House signaled that President Trump would be open to bolstering gun background checks in the wake of a mass shooting at a Florida high school last week that rekindled the national debate about gun control.
The president spoke on Friday to Senate Majority Whip John Cornyn about a bill the Texas Republican introduced with Sen. Chris Murphy (D-Connecticut) that would “improve federal compliance with criminal background check legislation,” White House press secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders said in a statement Monday.
“While discussions are ongoing and revisions are being considered, the president is supportive of efforts to improve the federal background check system,” she said.
Cornyn and Murphy were among a bipartisan group of lawmakers who supported the background check bill introduced in November after a church shooting in Sutherland Springs, Texas, that left 26 people dead.
It’s the first indication that Trump would back a measure to bolster background checks.
The president, who ran as a pro-Second Amendment candidate and was supported by the NRA, called for a review of whether “bump stocks” should be banned after a shooter in Las Vegas used the rapid-fire device to kill 58 and wound more than 500 in October.
The issue hasn’t advanced in Washington.
In the days after 17 people were gunned down at Marjory Stoneman Douglas HS in Parkland, Fla., last Wednesday, Trump blamed mental illness and called on “neighbors and classmates” to report erratic behavior.
But Trump in February 2017 signed legislation ending an Obama-era regulation that made it harder for people with mental illnesses to buy a weapon.
The regulation, ordered by President Obama after the Sandy Hook Elementary School shooting, required the Social Security Administration to send the names of people receiving mental illness benefits to national gun database.
The White House also said Trump will host a “listening session” this Wednesday with high school students and teachers, but didn’t confirm that Parkland teens would be part of the discussion.
A group of students who survived the rampage also announced that they will hold a “March for Our Lives” rally in Washington, DC, on March 24 to highlight the need for gun control.
Trump spent the three-day Presidents Day weekend at his resort in Mar-a-Lago, which is about 40 miles north of the school shooting site, and surveyed members about gun control laws, the Washington Post reported.
He also spent much of his time on Twitter, unleashing several rants about the Russia probe, and at one point blamed the FBI for not pursuing a tip about the alleged Parkland school shooter because the bureau was so focused on trying to find evidence that his campaign helped Russians meddle in the election.
“Very sad that the FBI missed all of the many signals sent out by the Florida school shooter. This is not acceptable. They are spending too much time trying to prove Russian collusion with the Trump campaign – there is no collusion. Get back to the basics and make us all proud!” he wrote late Saturday.
The FBI admitted it did not follow “protocols” in pursuing the tip it received Jan. 5 at a call center about Nikolas Cruz’s violent postings on social media and his desire to kill.
The president’s Twitter tantrum followed the indictment Friday of 13 Russians by the Department of Justice on charges they carried out an elaborate plot to sabotage the 2016 election by creating chaos and supporting Trump at the expense of Hillary Clinton.   	