            The National Rifle Association filed a lawsuit against a new gun law in Florida Friday. (DOMINICK REUTER/AFP/Getty Images)        
Like Blaze News? Get the news that matters most delivered directly to your inbox.The National Rifle Association filed a lawsuit Friday against a law narrowly passed through the Florida legislature and signed by Republican Governor Rick Scott in response to the horrific Parkland massacre. Here's what the NRA is arguing
The NRA says that one of the provisions of the new gun law in Florida violates the rights of 18-21 year olds. #Breaking The new law strips law-abiding adults aged 18-20 of their Second Amendment right to self-protection and imposes unnecessary delays on all firearm purchases. This bill punishes law-abiding gun owners for the criminal acts of a deranged individual. https://t.co/NmRrYUooBC— NRA (@NRA) March 9, 2018
In a statement from the executive director of the National Rifle Association Institute for Legislative Action said the gun rights organization was disappointed in the passage of the law. “This bill punishes law-abiding gun owners for the criminal acts of a deranged individual,” he said. “Securing our schools and protecting the constitutional rights of Americans are not mutually exclusive," he added. "Instead of looking to the root cause of this premeditated violence, the gun control provisions in this law wrongly blame millions of Floridians who safely and responsibly exercise their right to self-defense.”
The NRA statement continued, "several provisions contained in SB 7026 will do nothing to increase public safety and will only impact law-abiding citizens. Preventing a responsible 20-year-old from purchasing the best tool for self-defense will not stop a deranged criminal intent on committing a crime."   A national conversation?
The mass murder at a Parkland, Florida, high school precipitated a national outcry for more gun restrictions lead by many of the teenage survivors of the massacre. Defenders of the Second Amendment have pointed out that many of the provisions being proposed would not have stopped the Parkland massacre, and that government failed to stop the killer despite numerous warning signs. 