I’m disappointed that U.S. Sen. John McCain wants President Trump kept away from his funeral.
Disappointed, but not surprised.
One of the most compelling characteristics of the Arizona senator is his capacity for self-reflection. He doesn’t shy away from owning his mistakes. Which is why Donald Trump belongs at McCain’s funeral. Without John McCain, chances are there never would have been a President Trump.
In July 2015, when Trump made his insulting crack about McCain not being a war hero (“I like people that weren’t captured”) many political observers believed it was the end of the Trump candidacy.
After all, how can a first-time GOP candidate like Donald Trump — a TV show host who dodged the draft during the Vietnam War — get away with attacking a respected war hero and former nominee of his party?
What Trump knew, and most observers outside the right didn’t, was just how unpopular John McCain was with the Republican base.
This may come as a surprise to members of the media, but their favorite Republican is actually one of the least popular U.S. senators in the country. In 2008, when John McCain won the GOP nomination, he had to do so without the support of most self-identified conservatives.
In his 2008 race, Mr. “Reach Across the Aisle” moderate McCain was losing in the polls to untested Sen. Barack Obama. He never had a lead until early September — after he added Sarah Palin to the ticket and fired up the GOP base. It was Palin who kept McCain in the race (until the Great Recession knocked him out), and how does he thank her? What’s McCain’s message to the base she represents?
“I wish I’d picked Joe Lieberman instead.”
“McCain is the classic example of the Republican who talks hard right during campaigns but castigates those views immediately upon returning to the Beltway. This behavior has made him the bete noire of Arizona conservatives for decades,” said Jon Gabriel, longtime Arizona journalist and editor-in-chief of the conservative website Ricochet.com.
Since his first run for the presidency in 2000, McCain has gone out of his way to attack the “whacko birds” of the GOP base. He accused the Tea Party (responsible for the GOP taking control of the House in 2010) of “appealing to the bad angels of our nature.” He called Trump supporters in his home state “crazies.” He’s repeatedly suggested that supporters of border security are motivated by racial animus rather than respect for the rule of law.
When John McCain says he’s looking forward to retirement so “I can speak my mind without fearing the consequences,” the GOP base knows he means them. Not the failures of the Obama years, or the abuses of big government, or the extremism of Liz Warren and the Left. McCain has no interest in speaking truth to that power. He’s a man who’s never happier than when he’s attacking his own team — and getting praised by the press for doing it.
Enter Donald Trump. Instead of dodging issues the base cared about — immigration, trade, American intervention abroad — he embraced them. Instead of apologizing to the press for his supporters’ views, he advanced them. You may agree with Sen. McCain’s analysis of Trump’s “half-baked, spurious nationalism,” but is it a surprise that Republican voters supported a politician who fights for them over the longtime D.C. insider like McCain, who, if he never actually used the phrase “deplorables,” quietly nodded in agreement?
Covering the 2008 primaries, I wrote for National Review that moderate John McCain didn’t win the nomination, the conservative candidates lost it. Candidates like Sen. Fred Thompson of Tennessee, who more closely reflected the views of the GOP base, lost in yet another year of “Republicans don’t fall in love, they fall in line.”
Eight years later, a field of McCain-style Republicans like Sen. Marco Rubio, Gov. Scott Walker and Sen. Lindsey Graham ran — and were rolled over — by Donald Trump. Trump told GOP primary voters to forget “falling in line” and tell the Establishment to … er, you know what he told them.
Trump reminded the GOP base that “Good Guys” like George W. Bush, McCain and former Massachusetts Gov. Mitt Romney were all trashed by the press as sexists and bigots, anyway. So why not pick a politician who punches back? Who’s on your side?
That has never been John McCain. In the eyes of many, this makes him the better man. But it also helped make Donald Trump president.
Michael Graham is a regular contributor to the Boston Herald. Follow him on Twitter: @IAmMGraham.
