  
|
Posted: May 13, 2018 12:01 AM The opinions expressed by columnists are their own and do not necessarily represent the views of Townhall.com.  
When Matthew Vasser founded Vasser Women’s College he said it was because he realized that the “Mothers of a nation mold its citizens, determine its institutions, and shape its destiny.”What better place to invest in the future of America then the mothers who are shaping her future?We spend so much time looking to the federal government to solve our problems that we have completely overlooked where our real power lies – with us. America wasn’t founded by a government. It was founded by families uniting together in communities, who then formed a government, organized into states and united those states into a union. But it all started with families. Families founded America and it is families that will save her. Home is the center of the society and mothers are the center of the home.If we want to know what America will look like in twenty years, look at the homes of America today. Are you concerned? You should be.I have a friend who teaches at Schofield Army Barracks in Hawaii. The school, like many around the country, no longer requires the students to pledge the flag. But my friend, being the patriotic soul she is, had her fifth grade class come in every morning and recite the Pledge of Allegiance. She said the students grumbled wanting to know why they had to pledge the flag when none of the other kids had to. All I could think when she told me this was that the parents of those children put their lives on the line every day for that flag and everything it stands for. If those children don’t have love and appreciation for the flag what hope do we have in America? It is only a matter of time before we lose freedom and everything we hold dear.Liberty begins at home and if we don’t start there, nothing else we do will matter. No election, no law, no court can save us.Mothers, we must teach our children to love liberty because no one else will. The proof is in the fact that thousands of millennials enthusiastically supported a self-proclaimed socialist for president – the leader of the free world. How is this possible? It is because our schools are not teaching liberty. Society, schools, the media, even churches that once taught these things are no longer doing so, and in many cases teaching the exact opposite. The result is that we now have a nation of children and young parents who wonder why America is so special and what there is to love about it.Home is the center of society and at the center of the home is a mother. That mother is more powerful than any president for she is literally shaping the future. As former First Lady, Barbara Bush said, “Our success as a society depends not on what happens at the White House, but what happens inside YOUR house.”If our schools aren’t teaching our children about America’s history and heritage, then we need to be doing it. If the media is not going to present truth and facts, then we need to. If liberty is to prevail, if America is to prosper, then we need to foster a love of liberty in our home.In his book, The Silent Majority Survival Handbook, Peter Wolf says parents must become the first line of defense. “Parents,” he said, “need to devote time and effort to teach their children that America is a good country and to teach them about American heroes and history. They can front-load liberty loving values through strong association and participation in the 4th of July and Memorial Day activities. Parents need to teach their children how liberty and personal responsibility are linked and how tyranny can evolve without them.”As proclaimed in the Declaration of Mothers, “Anation is but a magnified home.”What the future will look like for our children and grandchildren is all being decided right now in homes and families across America. If freedom is what we want to see, then we need to nurture and foster the principles and ideals of freedom in our homes. HomeMakers for America has many resources to support you from the Patriot’s Reading List to the Hearthstone Education Plan. Libraries of Hope has a beautiful collection of stories to promote a love of liberty in the hearts of our children.  If all we want are short term results that wax and wane in two and four year cycles then we can put all our hope in elections. But if we want real solutions with lasting results, then we need to look to the homes of America because that is where the real hope for America lies.E.T. Sullivan expressed this so well. He said, We fancy that God can only manage his world with battalions, when all the while he is doing it by beautiful babies. When a wrong wants righting, or a truth needs preaching or a continent wants opening, God sends a baby into the world perhaps in a simple home and of some obscure mother. And then God puts the idea into the mother's heart, and she puts it into the baby's mind. And then God waits. The greatest forces in the world are not the earthquakes and thunderbolts. The greatest forces in the world are babies.” Never underestimate your influence as mothers. Never undervalue your importance. We arethe last best hope for America.The future of our nation is your hands. God has put the idea in your heart. And now…God waits.
