GOP Rep. Lou Barletta defeated state Rep. Jim Christiana to win the Pennsylvania Republican Senate primary Tuesday night.The Associated Press called the race for Barletta after 52 percent of precincts had reported their numbers, which showed he had 59 percent of the votes. Barletta will now take on Democratic incumbent Bob Casey Jr. in the high-stakes race for U.S. Senate. Barletta was backed by President Donald Trump in a February tweet, calling him “a Great Republican” and pointed out that he was one of his “very earliest supporters.” Trump also called out Casey in the tweet, saying he listens to “Tax Hikers Pelosi and Schumer.” (RELATED: PA Rep. Holds On Through Vicious Primary Fight Where Opioids Took Center Stage) Rep. Lou Barletta, a Great Republican from Pennsylvania who was one of my very earliest supporters, will make a FANTASTIC Senator. He is strong & smart, loves Pennsylvania & loves our Country! Voted for Tax Cuts, unlike Bob Casey, who listened to Tax Hikers Pelosi and Schumer! — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) February 11, 2018  Trump also sent out a tweet Wednesday morning, congratulating Barletta on his victory, saying “Lou is a friend of mine and a special guy, he will very much help MAKE AMERICA GREAT AGAIN!” (RELATED: Trump Celebrates ‘A Great Night’ For GOP Primary Winners)  Congratulations to Lou Barletta of Pennsylvania. He will be a great Senator and will represent his people well – like they haven’t been represented in many years. Lou is a friend of mine and a special guy, he will very much help MAKE AMERICA GREAT AGAIN! — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) May 16, 2018  Barletta will now be taking on Casey in the November general election for U.S. Senate. Follow Henry Rodgers On Twitter Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience. For licensing opportunities of our original content, please contact licensing@dailycallernewsfoundation.org. 