 President Trump has pulled out of the scheduled summit with North Korean Dictator Kim Jong Un in Singapore. The meeting was scheduled for June 12. In a letter to Un released by the White House Thursday morning, President Trump expressed his disappointment in recent behavior by the regime. "We greatly appreciate your time, patience, and effort with respect to our recent negotiations and discussions relative to a summit long sought by both parties, which was scheduled to take place on June 12 in Singapore. We were informed that the meeting was requested by North Korea, but that to us is totally irrelevant. I was very much looking forward to being there with you. Sadly, based on the tremendous anger open hostility displayed in your most recent statement, I feel it is inappropriate, at this time, to have this long-planned meeting," President Trump wrote (bolding is mine). "Therefore, please let this letter serve to represent that the Singapore summit, for the good of both parties, but to the detriment of the world, will not take place. You talk about your nuclear capabilities, but ours are so massive and powerful that I pray to God they will never have to be used.""I felt a wonderful dialogue was building up between you and me, and ultimately, it is only that dialogue that matters. Some day, I look very much forward to meeting you. In the meantime, I want to thank you for the release of the hostages who are now home with their families. That was a beautiful gesture and was very much appreciated," Trump continued. "If you change your mind having to do with this most important summit, please do not hesitate to call me or write. The world, and North Korea in particular, has lost a great opportunity for lasting peace and great prosperity and wealth. This missed opportunity is a truly sad moment in our history." The letter comes after repeated threats from North Korea, including nuclear war, and after the regime called Vice President Mike Pence a "dummy."This is a developing story, stay tuned for updates. This post has been updated with additional information. 