       Walmart will begin subsidizing the cost of college for store workers who work toward company-selected degrees at schools that have teamed with the retailing giant.       In exchange for a contribution of $1 a day, the company said it would cover the price of tuition and books for an estimated 68,000 associates over the next five years from all Walmart and Sam’s Club stores in the U.S. The Bentonville, Ark.-based retailer said its goal is eliminating the need for workers to obtain student loans, addressing “one of the biggest hurdles that keep people from returning to college.”       “Investing in the personal and professional success of our associates is vital to Walmart’s future success," Greg Foran, head of Walmart's U.S. operations, said in a statement. "We know training and learning opportunities empower associates to deliver for customers while growing and advancing in their careers."       Walmart teamed with three colleges — the University of Florida, Brandman University in Irvine, Calif., and Bellevue University in Bellevue, Neb. — on the program and will require participants to pursue an associate’s or bachelor’s degree in business or supply chain management. A spokesperson for the retailer said they expect to expand the program to different areas of study.       All three schools offer online degrees, and Guild Education, a Web-based learning platform, will also partner with the retailer to provide personalized coaching on the application and enrollment process.       “Walmart has kicked off what might be the nation’s most scalable approach to creating educational opportunity for America’s workforce, now available to its U.S. associates and their families,” Guild Chief Executive Officer Rachel Carlson said in a statement.       Enrollees can drop out of the program without facing penalty, the spokeswoman said, and will not be required to stay employed by Walmart after completing their education. There is no cap on the benefits as well, and employees can pursue both an associate's and a bachelor's degree if they choose.      