                          	The student gun control activists of Parkland will announce an extensive bus tour Monday featuring 70 stops in 20 states, where the students will advocate stricter gun control legislation and register voters to that end.
The tour, “March for Our Lives: Road to Change,” will be led by David Hogg and Emma Gonzalez, both of whom have established themselves as de facto spokespeople for the youth gun control movement that erupted following the mass shooting at their high school in March. “I’m glad I’m getting my diploma and not my death certificate,” Hogg, who graduated Sunday with Gonzalez and their fellow Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School seniors, told Axios in an interview to promote the tour.
Gonzalez, who plans to attend the New College of Florida in the fall, believes the tour will help increase support for the youth gun control movement among lawmakers who are concerned about the political implications of publicly opposing a coalition of young people.       “If you don’t support this, … it’ll look like you’re going against kids,” Gonzalez said.
The nation-wide tour will be accompanied by a separate Florida specific tour featuring stops in all of the state’s congressional districts. As the Parkland students’ home state, Florida has featured prominently in the students’ voter registration and gun control awareness campaigns in recent months. But the results thus far have not been encouraging: In six of Florida’s seven largest counties — including Broward county, where the shooting occurred — youth voter registration is down relative to 2014.
The student activists rode a surge of enthusiasm in the wake of the shooting but public support for gun control as the nation’s top political priority has waned considerably since then. Just six percent of respondents listed gun control as the most important problem facing the U.S. in an April Gallup poll, down from 13 percent in March.
Send a tip to the news team at NR.                   	Recommended          	NBC's 'Cataclysmic' Olympics-Coverage Flop     How can anyone feel good about these Olympics?              	Joe Biden Doesn’t Know What You’re Talking About     To watch Biden at the lectern was to experience shock and dismay interspersed with moments of alarm and dark humor. No wonder he hides from the media.              	Nikole Hannah-Jones Responds to Our 1619 and Slavery Issue     She reacted with a lot of sneering and ad hominem argumentation and nothing of substance.              	Maskless Super Bowl Marks Our Return to Normalcy     This collective moment was a warning to the Covid regime that its strictures won’t stand much longer.              	The Perfect Storm Is Coming     Not learning from the stagflationary past may lead to a stagflationary future.              	The Afghanistan Debacle Looks Worse and Worse     The more we learn about the administration’s withdrawal, the more it becomes clear that its decisions were driven by political considerations and panic.       	The Latest          	Nikki Haley Blasts American-Born Skier Competing for China at Beijing Olympics     'Every athlete needs to know when they put their flag on, you're standing for freedom or you're standing for human rights abuses,' said Haley.              	San Francisco Voters Overwhelmingly Back Recall of Progressive School-Board Members     More than 70 percent of voters supported the ouster of school board members Alison Collins, Gabriela López, and Faauuga Moliga.               How Georgetown Is Stifling Speech on Campus     The university is implementing the academic analog of a SLAPP suit against Ilya Shapiro.              	McKinsey Website Contradicts Denials of Chinese-Government Work; Rubio Claims ‘Cover-Up’     The consultancy once said it did work for China’s central government, undercutting recent statements.               	Imagine a Trumpdeau. You Can’t     If Trump had gone after the 2020 rioters the way Trudeau is targeting truckers, the institutions and the permanent government wouldn’t have complied.              	Building Back Stagflation     Our elected leaders must accept that inflation is a monster of their own making, and stop fanning the flames with ever-higher levels of government spending.        