    President Trump said he used some hardball negotiating tactics on America’s top allies behind the scenes of the weekend’s Group of Seven meeting – threatening to cut them off from the massive U.S. market if they don’t lower their trade barriers.
“The gig is up,” he declared Saturday.
At the same time, Trump sought to entice foreign leaders with the prospect of turning the group into its own free-trade zone.
“That’s the way it should be – no tariffs, no barriers,” he said at a press conference in Charlevoix, Quebec, before departing the annual gathering of the world’s largest industrial democracies.
Trump’s free-trade advocacy came just days after he imposed steep tariffs on steel and aluminum imports that infuriated America’s biggest trading partners.
“I guess they got to go back to the drawing board and check it out,” Trump said.
At the same time, he tightened the screws on Britain, Canada, France, Germany, Italy and Japan, all of which apply high tariffs, quotas and other barriers to U.S. goods.
“It’s going to stop, or we’ll stop trading with them,” Trump said.
He described his closed-door meetings with the six other leaders as “not contentious.”
“What was strong was the language that this cannot go on,” he said, referring to his insistence that the U.S. is being victimized by trade deficits that hurt American workers.
“We’re the piggy bank that everybody is robbing. And that ends,” Trump asserted.
He said he continued to push his idea that Russia should be readmitted to the trade group. It lost its seat at the table in 2014 as punishment for Vladimir Putin’s annexation of Crimea.
“I think the G8 would be better. I think having Russia back in would be a positive thing,” he said. “We’re looking for peace in the world. We’re not looking to play games.”
The idea was greeted with disdain by his fellow leaders – all but Giuseppe Conte, Italy’s brand-new prime minister.
“Russia should return to the G-8,” he tweeted on Friday. “It is in everyone’s interest.”
Signaling the birth of a new international bromance, Trump called Conte “a really great guy” in a Saturday tweet.
“He will be honored in Washington, at the White House, shortly. He will do a great job – the people of Italy got it right!” he posted.
Despite the obvious tensions, Trump spoke in glowing terms of his personal relationships with the G7’s heads of state.
“I would say that the level of relationship is a 10,” he boasted. “We have a great relationship – Angela and Emmanuel and Justin,” referring to the leaders of Germany, France and Canada by their first names.
“That doesn’t mean I agree with what they’re doing. And they know very well that I don’t,” he said. “So we’re negotiating – very hard – tariffs and barriers.”
“It is obvious that we will have in the coming weeks, the next months, to continue to work,” French President Emmanuel Macron tactfully said after Trump’s departure.
All seven leaders signed on to the meeting’s traditional closing statement, Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau announced Saturday, despite widespread speculation that Trump would refuse to join.   	