    President Trump’s former campaign chairman Paul Manafort was sent to jail Friday after a federal judge revoked his $10 million bail in the wake of witness-tampering charges lodged by special counsel Robert Mueller.
Washington, DC, District Court Judge Amy Berman Jackson granted a motion filed by federal prosecutors and ordered that the accused felon be locked up until his trial on money-laundering and other charges in September.
“You have abused the trust placed in you six months ago,” the judge told Manafort, referring to his earlier deal for house arrest.
She scolded the former Trump aide over the feds’ allegations that he used his cellphone to try to contact case witnesses and persuade them to lie.
“This is not middle school. I can’t take away his cellphone,” she said. “If I tell him not to call 56 witnesses, will he call the 57th?”
And she refuted charges leveled by the commander-in-chief that Manafort’s prosecution was motivated by politics.
“This hearing is not about politics. It is not about the conduct of the office of special counsel. It is about the defendant’s conduct,” Jackson said. “I’m concerned you seem to treat these proceedings as another marketing exercise.”
Prosecutor Greg Andres told the judge that Manafort, 69, could continue to commit crimes if he remained free on bail, calling his actions “a sustained campaign over a five-week period” to reach two witnesses in an attempt to persuade them to lie on his behalf.
Three US marshals led Manafort out of the courtroom and into the prisoners’ holding area after the judge’s ruling.
A marshal then returned to give Manafort’s wife her spouse’s wallet, belt and necktie, typical procedures to prevent detainees from committing suicide, The Washington Post reported. It was unclear where Manafort would be imprisoned.
Trump took to Twitter to condemn what he called Manafort’s “sentence,” though his former adviser has not been tried yet, never mind convicted and sentenced.
“Wow, what a tough sentence for Paul Manafort, who has represented Ronald Reagan, Bob Dole and many other top political people and campaigns. Didn’t know Manafort was the head of the Mob. What about Comey and Crooked Hillary and all of the others? Very unfair!” the president tweeted.
Trump said earlier Friday that he felt badly for his former campaign chair and minimized his role in the campaign.
“Paul Manafort worked for me for a very short period of time. He worked for Ronald Reagan. He worked for Bob Dole. He worked for John McCain, or his firm did. He worked for many other Republicans. He worked for me, what, for 49 days or something? A very short period of time,” the president said.
Manafort worked for Trump for 144 days.
“I feel badly about a lot of it because I think a lot of it is very unfair. They went back 12 years to get things that he did 12 years ago,” the president said.
Prosecutors argued that Manafort — who has done extensive work in Ukraine and elsewhere in Europe — was a significant flight risk.
His attorney, Richard Westling, had urged no jail, but Jackson was unswayed by his arguments.
Political allies argue that Mueller is sticking it to Manafort to pressure him into cooperating in the probe of Russian election meddling and collusion by the Trump campaign.
Last week, Mueller’s team of investigators charged that Manafort had tried to persuade two witnesses in the case to lie about their lobbying efforts on his behalf in the US.
Manafort also pleaded not guilty to the two charges levied against him last week for witness tampering and conspiracy to obstruct justice.
He has vowed to fight the charges.
Prosecutors say Manafort was engaged in a broad conspiracy to launder more than $30 million he was paid for secretly lobbying for a pro-Russian former politician and party in Ukraine.
He faces additional charges in Virginia of tax evasion, bank fraud and failure to report foreign bank accounts.
Trump refused to say Friday if he might pardon Manafort if he’s convicted.
“I don’t want to talk about that,” the president told reporters at the White House.    