                        	Getty Images                       A federal judge on Wednesday rejected President Donald Trump’s latest effort to stop a lawsuit alleging that he was violating the Constitution by doing business with foreign governments.
Judge Peter J. Messitte’s ruling in a Maryland court will let the plaintiffs — Maryland and the District of Columbia’s attorneys general — to proceed with their case, which charges that Trump has violated the Constitution’s little-used emoluments clause, The Washington Post reported.
The plaintiffs want to grill Trump Organization employees and search company records to determine which foreign countries have spent money at Trump’s hotel in Washington.
The Justice Department and Trump’s attorneys did not immediately respond to requests for comment from the paper.
Team Trump could appeal the decision and ask Messitte not to give the attorneys general access to Trump Organization employees and books until the appeal is decided.
The Constitution bars federal officials from taking emoluments from any “King, Prince, or Foreign State.”
The clause was included to prevent US ambassadors overseas from being bought off by Europeans.
But the modern meaning of the clause had not been settled because most presidents — unlike Trump — didn’t run or take part in running their businesses while in office.
Trump has maintained ownership of his business empire, including more than 10 hotels and golf clubs around the world.
Although Trump has said he gave up day-to-day management of his businesses, he still owns them and can withdraw money from them at any time, the DC paper reported.
A number of foreign governments have forked over big bucks to stay at the Trump International Hotel on Pennsylvania Avenue Washington a few blocks from the White House.
‘The hotel rented out ballrooms to Kuwait and the Philippines and hosted leaders from Malaysia and Romania.
The plaintiffs may also seek access to Trump’s tax returns, which he has refused to reveal, fueling speculation that the president has something to hide.                                             