
The Pentagon has reportedly started building the foundations of a Space Force as it waits for approval to create a new military branch proposed by President Trump. 
X 
The decision to create a Space Force will likely be a huge benefit for companies like United Launch Alliance, a Boeing (BA)-Lockheed Martin (LMT) joint venture, Northrop Grumman (NOC), Raytheon (RTN) and Elon Musk's SpaceX.
The Defense Department needs congressional approval to establish the Space Force as a separate branch of the military, making it the first since the Air Force was created in 1947. Until then, the Pentagon plans to make changes to the current force structure.
That includes setting up a new space combatant command, forming a new joint agency to buy and launch military satellites, and gathering personnel from the other services and the National Guard, Defense One reported Tuesday.
The draft report, developed by Deputy Defense Secretary Patrick Shanahan, will be sent to Congress Wednesday.
The new joint agency, the Space Development Agency, is seen as the centerpiece of the Pentagon's efforts, as it will oversee satellite development and launch contracts.
Boeing stock climbed 1.5% to 356.30 on the stock market today, heading toward a 374.58 buy point. Lockheed was up 1.8%, Northrop rose 1.9%, and Raytheon jumped 2.4%. Aerojet Rocketdyne (AJRD), which makes propulsion systems for the military and commercial sectors, surged nearly 22% after reporting strong earnings late Monday.
Creating a Space Force will have an outsized effect on the Air Force, whose Air Force Space Command is responsible for military launches. The service's Space and Missile Systems Center also controls 85% of the Pentagon's space procurement budget, according to Defense One.
But the Pentagon is pushing the service to speed up acquisitions and launches as the military moves from large satellites to smaller, cheaper and more resilient ones.
The new age of space technology "will unlock growth in the U.S. industrial base, expand the commercial space economy and strengthen partnerships with our allies," the draft reportedly says.
Last month, George Ferguson, a senior defense analyst with Bloomberg Intelligence said that standing up a Space Force would likely increase spending for satellites.
But a new service would still need to compete against the other established branches for funding. The Pentagon's budget is already stretched with spending on Lockheed's F-35 fighter jet, Northrop's B-21 bomber, several massive shipbuilding programs, and missile defense priorities.
Get instant access to more trading ideas, exclusive stock lists and IBD proprietary ratings for only $5.
YOU MIGHT BE INTERESTED IN: Space Industry News Space Warfare: Why The U.S. Is So Vulnerable, Despite SpaceX's Wins
