           President Donald Trump blasted special counsel Robert Mueller's Russia investigation again Wednesday, demanding that Attorney General Jeff Sessions "stop this rigged witch hunt right now."
Trump cited comments made by Alan Dershowitz earlier Wednesday on Fox Business Network's "Mornings With Maria" program. The renowned law professor slammed rogue FBI agent Peter Strzok's involvement in the Russia probe, adding that Mueller is "creating an illusion of objectivity." “FBI Agent Peter Strzok (on the Mueller team) should have recused himself on day one. He was out to STOP THE ELECTION OF DONALD TRUMP. He needed an insurance policy. Those are illegal, improper goals, trying to influence the Election. He should never, ever been allowed to........
— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) August 1, 2018 
.....remain in the FBI while he himself was being investigated. This is a real issue. It won’t go into a Mueller Report because Mueller is going to protect these guys. Mueller has an interest in creating the illusion of objectivity around his investigation.” ALAN DERSHOWITZ....
— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) August 1, 2018 
..This is a terrible situation and Attorney General Jeff Sessions should stop this Rigged Witch Hunt right now, before it continues to stain our country any further. Bob Mueller is totally conflicted, and his 17 Angry Democrats that are doing his dirty work are a disgrace to USA!
— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) August 1, 2018 Amid his attack on Mueller's probe, Trump also questioned why investigators failed to tell him that his former campaign chairman, Paul Manafort, was under investigation. Paul Manafort worked for Ronald Reagan, Bob Dole and many other highly prominent and respected political leaders. He worked for me for a very short time. Why didn’t government tell me that he was under investigation. These old charges have nothing to do with Collusion - a Hoax!
— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) August 1, 2018 Manafort's first trial began Tuesday in Virginia.
Trump returned with another tweet a half hour later, labeling accusation of Russian collusion with the Trump campaign "a TOTAL HOAX." Russian Collusion with the Trump Campaign, one of the most successful in history, is a TOTAL HOAX. The Democrats paid for the phony and discredited Dossier which was, along with Comey, McCabe, Strzok and his lover, the lovely Lisa Page, used to begin the Witch Hunt. Disgraceful!
— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) August 1, 2018 He returned to Twitter an hour later to add a slam against his Democrat opponent in the 2016 election, with a quote attributed to Washington Post columnist Marc Thiessen referring to a "smoking gun about a campaign getting dirt on their opponent, it was Hillary Clinton." “We already have a smoking gun about a campaign getting dirt on their opponent, it was Hillary Clinton. How is it OK for Hillary Clinton to proactively seek dirt from the Russians but the Trump campaign met at the Russians request and that is bad?” Marc Thiessen, Washington Post
— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) August 1, 2018            © 2022 Newsmax. All rights reserved.         