 You're already aware that MSNBC -- America's self-appointed racist dog whistle truth squad -- oddly chose not to air numerous speeches delivered by racial minorities at last night's Republican convention. They have a narrative to protect, and all that. But the Left-wing cable news channel isn't the only outlet following Chris Matthews down the path of unhinged and shameless race-baiting. The LA Times gets in on the act with an editorial cartoon and column accusing Republicans of using their convention to put a "brown face" on their racist, white party:  
Republicans are racist if they don't include people of color, but when they do include people of color, it merely highlights their broader racism. See how this works? Meanwhile, other news outlets are content to simply invent instances of bigotry: [A]s a Puerto Rican party functionary—Zoraida Fonalledas, the chairwoman of the Committee on Permanent Organization—took her turn at the main-stage lectern. As she began speaking in her accented English, some in the crowd started shouting “U.S.A.! U.S.A.!” The chanting carried on for nearly a minute while most of the other delegates and the media stood by in stunned silence. The Puerto Rican correspondent turned to me and asked, “Is this happening?” Tim Carney explains what was actually going on (hint: a floor dispute with zero connection to race):  Here’s what happened, Jack: RNC Chairman Reince Preibus had called for a voice vote to approve the Credential Committee’s report. Ron Paul delegates objected, because the committee had refused to seat half of the Paul delegates. When the voice vote came, the “Noes” clearly were louder than the “Ayes.” (Ron Paul backers are pretty good at shouting.) Preibus ruled that the Ayes had won, and then he ignored many yells of “Point of Order.” The Paulites began chanting “Point of Order,” trying to stop the proceedings so they could have a roll-call vote or even a debate. They also chanted “Seat Maine Now,” in this period. Some Romney backers from delegations near Maine responded – for better or worse – by chanting “U.S.A.! U.S.A.!” over the Paulites’ chants. It's revealing that "the media stood by in stunned silence," instantly and erroneously imputing racial nastiness to RNC delegates during this fracas. Their default assumption was that Republicans were maliciously drowning out an Hispanic woman. Why bother, you know, reporting on an occurrence when meme-fueling conjecture is so much easier? Unsurprisingly, some media outlets are wildly hyping an odious, isolated incident of genuine racism, for which an unidentified convention-goer was expelled last night. But I somehow I suspect you won't hear much about this story because, you see, deranged racist liberals don't count because...well, just because. Shut up. Thus the MSM race obsession rolls on. I'll leave you with three items: (1) NBC News embedded several clips of "notable speeches" from last night on its website. What do almost all of these speakers have in common? I guess the journalists of NBC believe John Boehner's unremarkable comments are more "notable" than anything Mia Love, Sher Valenzuela, Brian Sandoval or Artur Davis had to say. 
(2) "Hot mic" audio of ABC News Yahoo News employees laughing about Republican racism (vis-a-vis Isaac) when they thought no one was listening. The reflexive, anti-Republican bias in the mainstream press is pervasive and real (see update below):   (3) The speech MSNBC talked over:  
UPDATE - As Leah reports, the man responsible for the "hot mic" comments -- Yahoo News' DC Bureau Chief -- has been fired.
