
Senate Judiciary Committee Chuck Grassley released a statement Thursday morning about the FBI’s supplementary background investigation of Supreme Court nominee Brett Kavanaugh.“I’ve now received a committee staff briefing on the FBI’s supplement to Judge Kavanaugh’s background investigation file. There’s nothing in it that we didn’t already know," he said in a statement. “These uncorroborated accusations have been unequivocally and repeatedly rejected by Judge Kavanaugh and neither the Judiciary Committee nor the FBI could locate any third parties who can attest to any of those allegations. ... This investigation found no hint of misconduct and the same is true of the six prior FBI background investigations conducted during Judge Kavanaugh's 25 years of public service.”The White House also reviewed the report and in an official statement said they are “fully confident” that Kavanaugh will be confirmed.“With Leader McConnell’s cloture filing, Senators have been given ample time to review this seventh background investigation,” said Raj Shah, the principal deputy press secretary for the White House. “This is the last addition to the most comprehensive review of a Supreme Court nominee in history, which includes extensive hearings, multiple committee interviews, over 1,200 questions for the record and over a half million pages of documents. With this additional information, the White House is fully confident the Senate will vote to confirm Judge Kavanaugh to the Supreme Court.” With Leader McConnell’s cloture filing, Senators have been given ample time to review this seventh background investigation. This is the last addition to the most comprehensive review of a Supreme Court nominee in history, which includes extensive hearings, multiple (2/3)— Raj Shah (@RajShah45) October 4, 2018committee interviews, over 1,200 questions for the record and over a half million pages of documents. With this additional information, the White House is fully confident the Senate will vote to confirm Judge Kavanaugh to the Supreme Court.” – White House Spokesman Raj Shah (3/3)— Raj Shah (@RajShah45) October 4, 2018On Thursday morning, President Trump called the Kavanaugh confirmation battle a "very important time in our country." 
"Due Process, Fairness and Common Sense are now on trial!" he tweeted.This post has been updated.
