                  	Jake Ellzey for congress campaign      	(Jake Ellzey for Texas/YouTube)                     Texas state representative Jake Ellzey defeated fellow Republican Susan Wright in a runoff election for the state’s sixth congressional district, after former President Trump endorsed Wright.
Ellzey won with just over 53 percent of the vote on Tuesday, with Wright taking 46.7 percent. Just 39,000 voters cast their ballots, or fewer than 8 percent of registered voters in the sixth district. Wright, a GOP activist, was running to fill the seat of her late husband Ron Wright, who died of COVID-19 earlier this year. In addition to Trump, Wright was endorsed by the Club for Growth, Trump’s Make America Great Again PAC, and Senator Ted Cruz (R., Texas) and House GOP conference chair Elise Stefanik (R., N.Y.).
Ellzey was backed by former Texas governor Rick Perry and current Representative Dan Crenshaw (R., Texas).       “One of the things that we’ve seen from this campaign is a positive outlook — a Reagan Republican outlook for the future of our country — is what the people of the 6th District really, really want,” Ellzey said in his victory speech on Tuesday evening.
Special elections are special, and this one was no exception.
I want to congratulate Congressman-elect Jake Ellzey on his victory. I am praying for his success & wish him well.
I will never forget the kindness the people of #TX06 have shown Ron & I for so many years. Thank you.
— Susan Wright (@SusanWrightTX6) July 28, 2021
“I want to congratulate Congressman-elect Jake Ellzey on his victory. I am praying for his success & wish him well,” Wright wrote on Twitter. “I will never forget the kindness the people of #TX06 have shown Ron & I for so many years. Thank you.”
The special election for Ron Wright’s former seat was initially held on May 1 with 21 candidates, and Susan Wright received 19 percent of the vote in that election while Ellzey received 14 percent. No Democratic candidate made it into the runoff election.
Send a tip to the news team at NR.                   	Recommended          	NBC's 'Cataclysmic' Olympics-Coverage Flop     How can anyone feel good about these Olympics?              	Joe Biden Doesn’t Know What You’re Talking About     To watch Biden at the lectern was to experience shock and dismay interspersed with moments of alarm and dark humor. No wonder he hides from the media.              	Nikole Hannah-Jones Responds to Our 1619 and Slavery Issue     She reacted with a lot of sneering and ad hominem argumentation and nothing of substance.              	Maskless Super Bowl Marks Our Return to Normalcy     This collective moment was a warning to the Covid regime that its strictures won’t stand much longer.              	The Perfect Storm Is Coming     Not learning from the stagflationary past may lead to a stagflationary future.              	The Afghanistan Debacle Looks Worse and Worse     The more we learn about the administration’s withdrawal, the more it becomes clear that its decisions were driven by political considerations and panic.       	The Latest          	Nikki Haley Blasts American-Born Skier Competing for China at Beijing Olympics     'Every athlete needs to know when they put their flag on, you're standing for freedom or you're standing for human rights abuses,' said Haley.              	San Francisco Voters Overwhelmingly Back Recall of Progressive School-Board Members     More than 70 percent of voters supported the ouster of school board members Alison Collins, Gabriela López, and Faauuga Moliga.               How Georgetown Is Stifling Speech on Campus     The university is implementing the academic analog of a SLAPP suit against Ilya Shapiro.              	McKinsey Website Contradicts Denials of Chinese-Government Work; Rubio Claims ‘Cover-Up’     The consultancy once said it did work for China’s central government, undercutting recent statements.               	Imagine a Trumpdeau. You Can’t     If Trump had gone after the 2020 rioters the way Trudeau is targeting truckers, the institutions and the permanent government wouldn’t have complied.              	Building Back Stagflation     Our elected leaders must accept that inflation is a monster of their own making, and stop fanning the flames with ever-higher levels of government spending.        