                  	President Donald Trump chastises CNN’s Jim Acosta during a news conference following Tuesday’s midterm congressional elections at the White House in Washington, D.C., November 7, 2018.      (Kevin Lamarque/Reuters)                     President Trump chastised CNN’s Jim Acosta during a White House press conference Wednesday for continuing to shout questions over other reporters and refusing to surrender his microphone to a staffer who tried to take it away.
“That’s enough. Put down the mic,” Trump shouted while Acosta pushed a staffer’s arm away as she tried to confiscate his microphone. “I tell you what, CNN should be ashamed of itself having you working for them. You are a rude, terrible person. You shouldn’t be working for CNN.”
"You are a rude, terrible person," @POTUS @realDonaldTrump lashes out at @CNN reporter Jim @Acosta.#politics #uspolitics #POTUS pic.twitter.com/SKDFurFDbX
— WMUR TV (@WMUR9) November 7, 2018 The heated exchange began when Acosta asked Trump to concede that the caravan of Central American migrants headed toward the southern border did not constitute an “invasion” as Trump and his allies had previously claimed.
“The caravan was not an invasion, it is a group of migrants moving up the border from Central America towards the border with the U.S.,” Acosta argued.
“Thank you for telling me that, I appreciate it,” Trump shot back, before denying that he “demonized” immigrants as part of his messaging strategy ahead of the midterms.
Acosta, who continued to interrupt and shout over Trump, insisted that Trump was overlooking the caravan’s distance from the border.
“They’re hundreds of miles away, that’s not an invasion,” Acosta said.       “Honestly, I think you should let me run the country, you run CNN and if you did it well, your ratings would be much better,” Trump said.
NBC Correspondent Pete Williams was given the next question and used part of his allotted time to defend Acosta, whom he referred to as a “diligent reporter.”
“Well, I’m not a big fan of yours either, to be honest,” Trump responded.
Acosta then rose from his chair again and began speaking over his fellow reporter, prompting Trump to once again characterize him and his network as the “enemy of the people.”
CNN said the president had “gone too far” in a statement released moments after the press conference.
CNN’s response to @realDonaldTrump’s press conference today: pic.twitter.com/tJ3nZDnYwO
— CNN Communications (@CNNPR) November 7, 2018 Send a tip to the news team at NR.                   	Recommended          	NBC's 'Cataclysmic' Olympics-Coverage Flop     How can anyone feel good about these Olympics?              	Joe Biden Doesn’t Know What You’re Talking About     To watch Biden at the lectern was to experience shock and dismay interspersed with moments of alarm and dark humor. No wonder he hides from the media.              	Nikole Hannah-Jones Responds to Our 1619 and Slavery Issue     She reacted with a lot of sneering and ad hominem argumentation and nothing of substance.              	Maskless Super Bowl Marks Our Return to Normalcy     This collective moment was a warning to the Covid regime that its strictures won’t stand much longer.              	The Perfect Storm Is Coming     Not learning from the stagflationary past may lead to a stagflationary future.              	The Afghanistan Debacle Looks Worse and Worse     The more we learn about the administration’s withdrawal, the more it becomes clear that its decisions were driven by political considerations and panic.       	The Latest          	Nikki Haley Blasts American-Born Skier Competing for China at Beijing Olympics     'Every athlete needs to know when they put their flag on, you're standing for freedom or you're standing for human rights abuses,' said Haley.              	San Francisco Voters Overwhelmingly Back Recall of Progressive School-Board Members     More than 70 percent of voters supported the ouster of school board members Alison Collins, Gabriela López, and Faauuga Moliga.               How Georgetown Is Stifling Speech on Campus     The university is implementing the academic analog of a SLAPP suit against Ilya Shapiro.              	McKinsey Website Contradicts Denials of Chinese-Government Work; Rubio Claims ‘Cover-Up’     The consultancy once said it did work for China’s central government, undercutting recent statements.               	Imagine a Trumpdeau. You Can’t     If Trump had gone after the 2020 rioters the way Trudeau is targeting truckers, the institutions and the permanent government wouldn’t have complied.              	Building Back Stagflation     Our elected leaders must accept that inflation is a monster of their own making, and stop fanning the flames with ever-higher levels of government spending.        