
The Florida Senate race is rapidly becoming a clown show. It’s been over two days and Broward County, the largest Democratic bastion in the state, is still counting ballots. Counties slammed by Hurricane Michael last month have all tallied their votes. Broward seems unable to do so, or say how many are left outstanding. Broward Elections Supervisor Brenda Snipes seems to struggle answering basic questions about this process, even ones required by law. So far, there have been no regular updates. Instead, they’re dumping vote totals by the thousands, which has chipped away at Republican Gov. Rick Scott’s lead over incumbent Democratic Sen. Bill Nelson.Brenda Snipes is still doing it. She still won’t answer the most basic questions, including a bunch that are required by law. She still won’t say how many ballots remain. Unreal. https://t.co/QWtzeDQOsd— Charles C. W. Cooke (@charlescwcooke) November 9, 2018“This is a pattern of, at a minimum, incompetence.... Voters deserve better. This is not even a partisan thing. This is a county that apparently cannot even count votes as well as a county that just got wiped out by a hurricane.” -@marcorubio— GOP (@GOP) November 9, 2018Polls closed over 48 hrs ago and #Broward Elections Supervisor Brenda Snipes doesn’t know – or is refusing to tell us – how many ballots are left to count.We not going to let liberal activists overturn the will of the voters. pic.twitter.com/h8Eg6rXQJT— Ronna McDaniel (@GOPChairwoman) November 9, 2018?? IMPORTANT: If you voted with a provisional ballot, you have until 5:00 pm TODAY to verify that your vote has been counted. Call your Supervisor of Election Office now to confirm! https://t.co/1BpBAEWsBD— Florida GOP (@FloridaGOP) November 8, 2018Every vote legally cast should be counted. That’s the lawHave no problem with recounts. That’s the law.But last early votes were cast Sunday & had to be submitted by Tue evening. That the law too.Yet 48 hours after deadline #BrowardCounty is only county still counting them— Marco Rubio (@marcorubio) November 9, 2018This report comes from reporter at South Florida Sun-Sentinel reporting from the #BrowardElections office. https://t.co/Hy9DiIIwIh— Marco Rubio (@marcorubio) November 9, 2018Apparently #BrowardCounty elections left behind a box labeled “Provisional Ballots” at a local elementary school that served as a polling place.Just let that sink in for a moment. https://t.co/o1Gn7mxOzG— Marco Rubio (@marcorubio) November 8, 2018#Florida law requires counties report early voting & vote-by-mail within 30 minutes after polls close. 43 hours after polls closed 2 Democrat strongholds #BrowardCounty & #PalmBeachCounty are still counting & refusing to disclose how many ballots they have left to count. #Sayfie pic.twitter.com/ReXCaOzkZP— Marco Rubio (@marcorubio) November 8, 2018As of now, we’re heading into recount territory, with Scott leading by less than half of one percent, but Broward’s vote counting irregularities pose questions about whether Democrats are trying to steal this election. Sen. Marco Rubio (R-FL) certainly feels this way, going on lengthy spats on Twitter railing this process. In one polling location, provisional ballots were just left, with no chain of custody. A schoolteacher discovered them after they were never picked up. We don’t know how long they were there, and they might be unverifiable at this point. Now, Gov. Scott and the National Republican Senatorial Committee have had enough; they’re suing Broward County. Palm Beach County, another Democratic stronghold, is another one where sketchy vote counting is occurring. Scott has already declared victory, but he’s also mobilizing his legal team, as Democratic lawyers begin to pour into the state:On election night, Broward County said there were 634,000 votes cast. At 1 am today, there were 695,700 ballots cast on election day. At 2:30 pm today, the number was up to 707,223 ballots cast on Election Day. And we just learned, that the number has increased to 712,840 ballots cast on Election Day.In Palm Beach County, there are 15,000 new votes found since election night. So – It has been over 48 hours since the polls closed and Broward and Palm Beach Counties are still finding and counting ballots – and the Supervisors – Brenda Snipes and Susan Bucher (BOOKER) – cannot seem to say how many ballots still exist or where these ballots came from, or where they have been.[…]Palm Beach County is also refusing to provide information to the public. And they are illegally refusing to allow official party representatives into the ballot counting area and forcing people to stand behind a glass wall with limited visibility and no ability to hear what is going on.This is a clear violation of Florida law – and we have just filed a lawsuit. Both Broward and Palm Beach Counties have failed in their duty to follow Florida law which requires that vote by mail and absentee ballots are accounted within 30 minutes of polls closing. Further, Palm Beach County has failed to update the Department of State since 10:19 am yesterday. This is in complete violation of Florida law which requires updated reports every 45 minutes until results are completely reported.[…]Tonight, I am asking the Florida Department of Law Enforcement to investigate this immediately and I am considering every single legal option available. No rag tag group of liberal activists or lawyers from D.C. will be allowed to steal this election from the voters in the state of Florida. I am proud to be the next Senator from the State of Florida and look forward to going up there and making Washington work for all Americans.”
