
President Donald Trump announced a deal to end the partial government shutdown from the Rose Garden Friday afternoon. Federal workers will receive back pay immediately.“I am very proud to announce we have reached a deal to end the shutdown and reopen the federal government," Trump said. "In a short while I will sign a bill to open the government for three weeks.""I want to thank all of the incredible workers and their amazing families who have showed extraordinary devotion in the wake of the hardship," Trump said. President Trump will sign a continuing resolution that will fund the government until February 15. In the meantime, the White House will continue negotiations with lawmakers over border security. He assured that Democrats have promised border security, with barriers being part of a negotiated package. Opening the government today does not include any down payment or funding for the wall.TRUMP CAVES ON DAY 34- Will sign bill to re-open gov't- Funds gov't until February 15- No money for the wall- Bill is similar to those he rejected in December and this week- Trump says talks will continue- If talks fail: another shutdown or a national emergency, Trump says— BNO News (@BNONews) January 25, 2019Democrats have been saying for weeks they’ll negotiate on wall funding when the government is open. POTUS is now giving them yet ANOTHER opportunity to come to the table. Americans will be able to judge for themselves whether Democrats are truly serious about securing our border.— Mark Meadows (@RepMarkMeadows) January 25, 2019"Walls should not be controversial," Trump. "No border security works without barriers."President Trump Delivers Remarks Regarding the Shutdown https://t.co/ouqsHy5Fie— The White House (@WhiteHouse) January 25, 2019"If we make a fair deal the American people will be proud of their government," Trump said. "If we don't get a fair deal from Congress the government will shut down again or I will use the powers afforded to me under the laws and afforded to me under the Constitution of the United States to address this emergency." 
According to the President, a fair deal would include funding for a wall.President Trump was joined in the Rose Garden by Vice President Mike Pence and a number of his Cabinet officials.This story has been updated with additional information. 