                  	Vice President Mike Pence speaks after a meeting with President Trump and Congressional Democrats about the government shutdown at the White House in Washington, D.C., January 9, 2019.       (Joshua Roberts/Reuters)                     Vice President Mike Pence declared the Islamic State “defeated” in remarks at the State Department Wednesday delivered just hours after the terror group claimed credit for a deadly suicide bombing that killed several U.S. service members.
“The caliphate has crumbled and ISIS has been defeated,” Pence said during an address to the Global Chiefs of Mission Conference at the State Department. Vice President Pence now: “Thx to the leadership of this CIC and the courage and sacrifice of our armed forces we’re now actually able to begin to hand off the fight against ISIS in Syria…We are bringing our troops home. The caliphate has crumbled and ISIS has been defeated." pic.twitter.com/mQH0c1GSu1
— Alan He (@alanhe) January 16, 2019
Pence celebrated victory over ISIS hours after a coalition spokesman confirmed reports that an unspecified number of American troops were killed in a suicide bombing Wednesday while patrolling the northern Syrian city of Manbij. Reuters, citing a U.S. official, reported that four U.S. troops were killed and at least four others were injured in the blast.       ISIS claimed responsibility for the attack on its official propaganda website, Amaq.
Pence did not mention the attack during his remarks at the State Department but his spokeswoman confirmed before his address that he was aware it had occurred. He did, however, vow that U.S. troops would remain in the region to to“insure that ISIS does not rear its ugly head again.”
Reached for comment, Pence’s spokeswoman provided a statement condemning the suicide bombing and reiterating that the ISIS caliphate has been “crushed.”
“President Trump and I condemn the terrorist attack in Syria that claimed American lives and our hearts are with the loved ones of the fallen. We honor their memory and we will never forget their service and sacrifice,” the statement reads. “Thanks to the courage of our Armed Forces, we have crushed the ISIS caliphate and devastated its capabilities. As we begin to bring our troops home, the American people can be assured, for the sake of our soldiers, their families, and our nation, we will never allow the remnants of ISIS to reestablish their evil and murderous caliphate – not now, not ever.”
The bombing marked the first time ISIS had taken credit for an attack on coalition forces since President Trump announced the immediate withdrawal of troops from Syria after a call with Turkish president Recep Tayyip Erdogan last month.
The loss of American life at the hands of ISIS will likely bolster critics of the U.S. troop withdrawal, who have pointed out that while the group’s territorial holdings have been eroded, roughly 30,000 of its fighters remain in the region.
Send a tip to the news team at NR.                   	Recommended          	NBC's 'Cataclysmic' Olympics-Coverage Flop     How can anyone feel good about these Olympics?              	Joe Biden Doesn’t Know What You’re Talking About     To watch Biden at the lectern was to experience shock and dismay interspersed with moments of alarm and dark humor. No wonder he hides from the media.              	Nikole Hannah-Jones Responds to Our 1619 and Slavery Issue     She reacted with a lot of sneering and ad hominem argumentation and nothing of substance.              	Maskless Super Bowl Marks Our Return to Normalcy     This collective moment was a warning to the Covid regime that its strictures won’t stand much longer.              	The Perfect Storm Is Coming     Not learning from the stagflationary past may lead to a stagflationary future.              	The Afghanistan Debacle Looks Worse and Worse     The more we learn about the administration’s withdrawal, the more it becomes clear that its decisions were driven by political considerations and panic.       	The Latest          	Nikki Haley Blasts American-Born Skier Competing for China at Beijing Olympics     'Every athlete needs to know when they put their flag on, you're standing for freedom or you're standing for human rights abuses,' said Haley.              	San Francisco Voters Overwhelmingly Back Recall of Progressive School-Board Members     More than 70 percent of voters supported the ouster of school board members Alison Collins, Gabriela López, and Faauuga Moliga.               How Georgetown Is Stifling Speech on Campus     The university is implementing the academic analog of a SLAPP suit against Ilya Shapiro.              	McKinsey Website Contradicts Denials of Chinese-Government Work; Rubio Claims ‘Cover-Up’     The consultancy once said it did work for China’s central government, undercutting recent statements.               	Imagine a Trumpdeau. You Can’t     If Trump had gone after the 2020 rioters the way Trudeau is targeting truckers, the institutions and the permanent government wouldn’t have complied.              	Building Back Stagflation     Our elected leaders must accept that inflation is a monster of their own making, and stop fanning the flames with ever-higher levels of government spending.        