
Sen. John McCain (R-AZ) passed away in August, but President Trump is still sharing his opinion of his old adversary. Here's what he tweeted on Sunday.So it was indeed (just proven in court papers) “last in his class” (Annapolis) John McCain that sent the Fake Dossier to the FBI and Media hoping to have it printed BEFORE the Election. He & the Dems, working together, failed (as usual). Even the Fake News refused this garbage!— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) March 17, 2019Meghan McCain sounded off on Trump's tweet on "The View" on Monday, telling the president he'll never measure up to her dad. She also suggested he's "obsessed" with her dad.Meghan McCain responds to Pres. Trump’s attacks on her late father, Sen. John McCain: “Your life is spent on your weekends not with your family, not with your friends, but obsessing, obsessing over great men you could never live up to.” https://t.co/p6oiZYUr74 pic.twitter.com/jrgKYKNzTx— The View (@TheView) March 18, 2019McCain shocked some by indirectly condemning Trump at her father's funeral, noting in her remarks that "America was always great."Yet, the president continued to criticize McCain Tuesday at the White House. When asked by a reporter why he still attacks McCain months after his death, Trump explained that it has to do, in part, with his vote on Obamacare.NEW: "I was never a fan of John McCain, and I never will be," Pres. Trump says in the Oval Office, calling the late senator's health care vote "disgraceful." https://t.co/wOFpFFu88A pic.twitter.com/CWXsYvop46— ABC News (@ABC) March 19, 2019"I'm very unhappy he didn't repeal and replace Obamacare," despite campaigning on it, Trump explained. He's clearly still frustrated that the senator told them "hours before" that he was voting for it, before changing his mind. 
There were plenty of "other things" that Trump didn't like about the senator."I was never a fan of John McCain and I never will be," the president concluded.Trump infamously began publicly criticizing McCain when he said on the campaign trail in 2015 that the senator was "not a war hero." "He’s a war hero because he was captured," Trump said. "I like people who weren’t captured.”
