                 	The Biden administration is pushing for more "inclusive language" when it comes to immigration.       LightRocket via Getty Images                        
​T​he Biden administration has ordered federal immigration enforcement agencies to nix the use of terms like “illegal alien” and “assimilation” when referring to illegal immigrants, in favor of more “inclusive language,” according to a report on Monday. ​ The new directive was included in a memo sent to the heads of Immigration and Customs Enforcement and Customs and Border Protection as part of an effort by the Biden White House to build a more “humane” immigration system, the Washington Post reported, citing copies it obtained.​​ According to the document, “alien” will become “noncitizen or migrant,” “illegal” will be called “undocumented,” and “assimilation” will be refered to as “integration.”​​ “The words we use matter,” Troy Miller, a senior CBP official, said in his memo. The memos ​also put the agencies on notice that their attitudes and those of their labor unions that endorsed former President Donald Trump must change under the Biden administration. “As the nation’s premier law enforcement agency, we set a tone and example for our country and partners across the world,” ​Troy Miller, a senior official at CBP, said in his memo. “We enforce our nation’s laws while also maintaining the dignity of every individual with whom we interact. The words we use matter and will serve to further confer that dignity to those in our custody.” Tae Johnson, acting ICE director, sent a similar message to Miller’s, and called for the use of “inclusive language.” Acting ICE Director Tae Johnson ensured his agency would use the inclusive terminology.ICE “In response to the vision set by the Administration, ICE will ensure agency communications use the preferred terminology and inclusive language,” he said.​​ Border Patrol and ICE agents routinely use the terms “alien” and “illegal alien” in their press releases and on social media to refer to immigrants they take into custody for illegally crossing the border. 
​​The changes at the immigration law enforcement agencies are ​part of President Biden’s effort to strip away the language used during the Trump administration across government agencies. 
Earlier this year, the Biden administration directed the Department of Homeland Security to stop using “alien” and “illegal alien” in its communications with the public.                                             	