
The stories are endless. The list of liberal media screw-ups when covering this White House is endless. You would think that there would be a learning curve or something. Nope. They still can’t accurately report on the Trump White House. All I can say is ‘watch out for that rake.’ It all started with President Trump’s first visit to Japan, where a simple photo op between the president and Prime Minister Shinzo Abe feeding koi fish wasn’t reported properly. Fish feeding was the source of fake news, folks. That’s how bad this has become. Then, the media also forgot that Barack Obama didn’t take any questions on his first visit to China; there initially was hyperventilation from these sour patch kids that Trump did the same. Remember how Trump removed the bust of MLK, Jr. from the Oval Office, except that he didn’t. Do we even need to go down the numerous foul-ups over the Russian collusion myth? So, what happened now during Trump’s most recent trip to Japan? Oh, well, he wanted the U.S.S. McCain to be obscured or something (via WaPo):The White House asked Navy officials to obscure the USS John S. McCain while President Trump was visiting Japan, Pentagon and White House officials said Wednesday night.A senior Navy official confirmed he was aware someone at the White House sent a message to service officials in the Pacific requesting that the USS John McCain be kept out of the picture while the president was there. That led to photographs taken Friday of a tarp obscuring the McCain name, said the official, who spoke on the condition of anonymity because of the sensitivity of the situation.When senior Navy officials grasped what was happening, they directed Navy personnel who were present to stop, the senior official said. The tarp was removed on Saturday, before Trump’s visit, he added.The White House request was first reported by the Wall Street Journal.The crew of the McCain also was not invited to Trump’s visit, which occurred on the USS Wasp. But a Navy official, speaking on the condition of anonymity, said it was because the crew was released from duty for the long holiday weekend, along with sailors from another ship, the USS Stethem.A senior White House official also confirmed that they did not want the destroyer with the McCain name seen in photographs. The official, who spoke on the condition of anonymity to discuss internal deliberations, said the president was not involved in the planning, but the request was made to keep Trump from being upset during the visit.I was not informed about anything having to do with the Navy Ship USS John S. McCain during my recent visit to Japan. Nevertheless, @FLOTUS and I loved being with our great Military Men and Women - what a spectacular job they do!— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) May 30, 2019Oh, so we have the anonymous sources thing going on again. Gone are the Watergate days, where an anonymous source was actually giving solid information, or at least something that turned into a major political scandal. In general, I wouldn’t be opposed to citing such sources, but after 567-plus times of these folks being just flat wrong, maybe the media should just—you know—maybe think twice before taking a face full of buckshot being wrong…again. There’s Deep Throat, also known as the late Mark Felt, an Associate Director of the FBI, who fed information to Washington Post’sWoodward and Bernstein about the Nixon White House and some random liberal paper pusher from the Obama administration, or worse a holdout working within the Trump administration, whose just mad that Hillary isn’t president. And now the Navy Chief of Information:“The name of USS John S. McCain was not obscured during the POTUS visit to Yokosuka on Memorial Day. The Navy is proud of that ship, its crew, its namesake and its heritage.”The name of USS John S. McCain was not obscured during the POTUS visit to Yokosuka on Memorial Day. The Navy is proud of that ship, its crew, its namesake and its heritage.— Navy Chief of Information (@chinfo) May 30, 2019Hmmm....looks obscured to me ?? pic.twitter.com/rfojCeNOZX— Red™? (@Redpainter1) May 30, 2019That photo is not from the day of the POTUS visit (Monday in Japan, Sunday in US), as the WSJ report itself mentions.— Navy Chief of Information (@chinfo) May 30, 2019Yeah, this apparently upset some liberals who cited liberal media articles to fact-check...the Navy. Well, if the liberal New York Times said otherwise then the Navy is lying or something. Yeah, whatever makes you sleep at night, liberal America.  The USS McCain “outrage” is Covington Kidz 2, and the same suckers are falling for it.— Kurt Schlichter (@KurtSchlichter) May 30, 2019The best part of the “Trump ordered the removal of the USS John McCain” stories will be the all the journalists holding their own profession to account for running with yet another false story in the Trump Era. pic.twitter.com/S9OycZjVwb— Jesse Kelly (@JesseKellyDC) May 30, 2019
