     A flight carrying about 200 people, including Americans and other Western foreigners, arrived in Qatar Thursday after being cleared by the Taliban to leave Kabul on a commercial airline. The Qatar Airways flight out of Kabul’s Hamid Karzai International Airport arrived “safely” in Qatar on Thursday afternoon, the White House said.  Footage showed passengers disembarking from the flight in Doha. The flight marks the first large departure of US citizens from Afghanistan since the last troops left the Taliban-run country just over a week ago. Passengers board a Qatar Airways aircraft at the airport in Kabul on Sept. 9, 2021. AFP via Getty Images The White House has not confirmed how many Americans were on the flight but a senior US official had earlier said about 150 US citizens were onboard. In addition to Americans and green card holders, German, Hungarian, Canadian and British citizens were also on the flight, the official said. The flight would mark the largest evacuation flight of US citizens from Afghanistan since the last troops left the Taliban-run country just over a week ago.Olivier Douliery/Pool via AP The Biden administration took credit for facilitating the departure of US citizens on the Qatar flight, according to a statement that also heaped praise on the Taliban for their “cooperation” in getting Americans out. “They have shown flexibility, and they have been businesslike and professional in our dealings with them in this effort. This is a positive first step,” the statement from National Security Council spokeswoman Emily Horne said. Taliban authorities were spotted patrolling the tarmac and checking travel documents, including visas, before passengers were cleared to board the plane. The departure of the Qatar Airways flight came after a days-long standoff with the Taliban that saw dozens of passengers stranded when militants wouldn’t let charter planes take off from a different airport. It is unclear if those onboard the Qatar flight were among those stranded in the charter plane ordeal. Passengers, including US citizens, were set to leave Kabul airport on the first flight carrying people out of the capital since a US-led evacuation ended on August 31. AFP via Getty Images Secretary of State Antony Blinken had admitted Wednesday that Taliban fighters were holding back flights trying to ferry Americans and Afghan allies out of the country. “As of now, the Taliban are not permitting the charter flights to depart. They claim that some of the passengers do not have the required documentation,” Blinken told reporters at the US airbase in Ramstein, Germany. “While there are limits to what we can do without personnel on the ground, without an airport with normal security procedures in place, we are working to do everything in our power to support those flights, and to get them off the ground.” The group of evacuees includes an undisclosed number of other Western foreigners.Olivier Douliery/Pool via REUTERS Qatari envoy Mutlaq bin Majed al-Qahtani said another 200 passengers are due to leave Afghanistan on another Qatar flight on Friday. “Call it what you want, a charter or a commercial flight, everyone has tickets and boarding passes,” he said from the tarmac on Thursday. A 12-year-old boy named Irfan Popalzai, his mother and five brothers and sisters were among the American citizens on the flight. Foreigners board a Qatar Airways aircraft at the airport in Kabul, Afghanistan on Sept. 9, 2021. AP Photo/Bernat Armangue Taliban fighters walk past a Qatar Airways aircraft at the airport in Kabul, Afghanistan on Sept. 9, 2021. AP Photo/Bernat Armangue “I am an Afghan, but you know I am from America and I am so excited (to leave),” he said, adding that his family lives in Maryland. The Biden administration has faced criticism in recent days for not doing more to pressure the Taliban to allow flights to leave Kabul. The US doesn’t have any troops or diplomats on the ground in Afghanistan after the deadly and botched withdrawal was completed Aug. 31. Secretary of State Antony Blinken admitted Wednesday that Taliban fighters were holding back charter flights.Olivier Douliery/Pool via AP More than 6,000 American citizens and green card holders have been flown out of Afghanistan amid the chaotic withdrawal, according to the White House. “We will continue these efforts to facilitate the safe and orderly travel of American citizens, lawful permanent residents, and Afghans who worked for us and wish to leave Afghanistan,” Horne, the National Security Council spokeswoman, said. “Because there is an ongoing terrorist threat to operations of this nature, we will not be sharing details of these efforts before people are safely out of the country.” The Biden administration has faced criticism for not doing more to pressure the Taliban to allow flights to leave Kabul.Kathy Gannon/AP With Post wires   	