           Hillary Clinton harshly criticizes Sen. Bernie Sanders, I-Vt., in a new documentary and told The Hollywood Reporter in an interview published Tuesday that she would not commit to backing him if he becomes the Democrats' nominee for president in the upcoming election.
In the documentary "Hillary," which will premiere later this month, Clinton slammed Sanders for his work on Capitol Hill, saying "He was in Congress for years. He had one senator support him. Nobody likes him, nobody wants to work with him, he got nothing done. He was a career politician. It's all just baloney and I feel so bad that people got sucked into it."
She told The Hollywood Reporter that this assessment still stands. Clinton refused to answer if she would endorse him or campaign for Sanders if he won the Democratic Party's nomination, citing "a very vigorous primary season."
Sanders endorsed Clinton in July 2016 for her run.
Clinton added that "it's not only him, it's the culture around him. It's his leadership team. It's his prominent supporters. It's his online Bernie Bros and their relentless attacks on lots of his competitors, particularly the women. And I really hope people are paying attention to that because it should be worrisome that he has permitted this culture — not only permitted, [he] seems to really be very much supporting it."
She stressed that "I don't think we want to go down that road again where you campaign by insult and attack and maybe you try to get some distance from it, but you either don't know what your campaign and supporters are doing or you're just giving them a wink and you want them to go after Kamala [Harris] or after Elizabeth [Warren]."
Sanders' campaign issued a statement in response, NBC News reported: "My focus today is on a monumental moment in American history: the impeachment trial of Donald Trump. Together, we are going to go forward and defeat the most dangerous president in American history."           © 2022 Newsmax. All rights reserved.         