        The United States is moving into a “new era of relentless diplomacy,” President Biden said Tuesday during the opening of the UN General Assembly, despite several glaring diplomatic blunders by his administration in recent weeks. 
In the days leading up to the UNGA, the Biden administration has been forced to answer to Congress for the chaotic troop withdrawal from Afghanistan, as well as diplomatic frustration from France over the nuclear-powered submarine deal with the United Kingdom and Australia. 
“Simply put, we stand, in my view, at an inflection point in history. And I’m here to share with you how the United States intends to work with partners and allies to answer these questions, and the commitment of my new administration to help lead the world toward a more peaceful, prosperous future for all people.” 
Biden highlighted the end of the war in Afghanistan as a turning point for diplomacy in the US.   “We’re opening a new era of relentless diplomacy of using the power of our development, to invest in new ways of lifting people up around the world,” he said. Despite this hopeful push, France, China, and the UK in particular have traded diplomatic barbs with the US recently. 
In March, Secretary of State Antony Blinken was lectured and mocked by Chinese officials on what they called US hypocrisy, at the first high-level meeting between the two nations, which took place on American soil. 
“The United States does not have the qualification to say that it wants to speak to China from a position of strength,” Diplomat Yang Jiechi said through a translator at the summit in Anchorage at the time. President Biden is set to meet with British PM Boris Johnson at the White House.Michael M. Santiago/Getty Images “Many people within the United States actually have little confidence in the democracy of the United States,” said Chinese Foreign Minister Wang Yi. Prior to the UN General Assembly, UN Secretary General Antonio Guterres revealed his goal to repair relations between the US and China, saying he is eager to avoid another “Cold War.” “We need to avoid at all cost a cold war that would be different from the past one, and probably more dangerous and more difficult to manage,” he said, adding that the current relationship between the two powers is one of “confrontation.” 
President Biden is set to host a bilateral meeting with Australian PM Scott Morrison.EPA/JOEL CARRETT Biden addressed Guterres’ concerns on Tuesday, making clear that the US is not looking to start a Cold War and is willing to work with any nation. 
He also pledged to double U.S. financial aid to poorer countries to help them switch to cleaner energy and cope with the “merciless” effects of climate change. That would mean increasing assistance to about $11.4 billion a year. This after five months ago doubling the amount to $5.7 billion a year. Amid the withdrawal of US forces from Afghanistan in August, President Biden reportedly ignored British Prime Minister Boris Johnson’s attempts to contact him for approximately 36 hours as the Taliban cemented its control. 
Once Johnson got Biden on the phone, the Telegraph reported, the British PM urged the American president not to throw away “gains made in Afghanistan” — a plea from one of America’s staunchest allies in that war and in general that the president disregarded. 
Tom Tugendhat, a Conservative MP and former British Army officer, went viral for his statement following one of Biden’s speeches on the drawdown, in which Tugendhat called the US president’s remarks “shameful.” President Biden is expected to discuss the COVID-19 pandemic, climate change and human rights abuses in his UN address.AP Last week, France called AUKUS, the nuclear submarine deal between the US, UK, and Australia, a “stab in the back,” before canceling a gala in Washington D.C. and pulling their ambassadors from the US and Australia. 
The initiative, which was meant to send a warning signal to China and repair a slight to Australia over the Afghanistan withdrawal, caused outrage after it upended a French defense contract worth at least $66 billion to sell diesel-powered submarines to Australia. On Monday, French Foreign Minister Jean-Yves Le Drian said there was a “crisis of trust” with the US over the issue. Still, Biden emphasized his administration’s goal to participate in international forums and “spur global action on shared challenges,” citing the decision to rejoin the Paris climate agreement and eventually retake a seat on the Human Rights Council. 
Joe Biden addresses the 76th Session of the U.N. General AssemblyGetty Images “As the United States seeks to rally the world to action, we will lead not just with example of our power, but God willing, the power of our example.”  Biden defended the US’ use of force against terrorist threats but said it must be used with caution. 
“Using US military power must be our tool of last resort, not our first. It should not be used as an answer to every problem we see around the world.” 
The Biden administration came under fire last week for a military airstrike launched last month in response to the ISIS-K suicide bomb that killed 13 US service members. On Friday, Marine Corps Gen. Kenneth McKenzie Jr., commander of US Central Command, admitted 10 civilians were killed in the strike, including a number of children. 
President Biden said the United States is moving into a “new era of relentless diplomacy.”Getty Images The Pentagon initially said the strike was successful and had killed those with connections to ISIS-K, before having to walk that claim back after it was first reported by the New York Times. 
To avoid large-scale military deployments in the future, the president noted working with local partners, appearing to reference the Taliban, which members of the administration have previously alluded to being able to work with going forward. 
The Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff Gen. Mark Milley told reporters earlier this month that it is “possible” American forces will coordinate with the Taliban on operations against ISIS-K. Biden highlighted the need to seek improvement of life for people all around the world, especially those whose governments are not serving their needs. 
President Biden disembarks Air Force 1 at JFK on September 20, 2021.Daniel William McKnight “Corruption fuels inequality, siphons off a nation’s resources, spreads across borders and generates human suffering. [It] is nothing less than a national security threat in the 21st century.” “Let me be clear, I am not agnostic about the future we want for the world,” he later added. “The future will belong to those who embrace human dignity. Not trample it. The future belongs to those who unleash the potential of their people, not those who stifle it.” Over the past year, Biden himself has been slammed for corruption over his son Hunter Biden’s business deals in China that allegedly set aside “10% for the big guy,” Joe Biden, as well as the father-son duo’s connection with a Ukrainian energy firm.The first son still appears to own 10 percent of an investment fund controlled by Chinese state-owned entities. The fund was formed 12 days after Hunter Biden joined his father aboard Air Force Two for a December 2013 trip to Beijing. 
Biden pointed to journalists, women, human rights activists and other protestors in countries like Belarus, Syria and Sudan as evidence that people are having to work every day to defend their rights. “I can tell you where America stands, we will choose to build a better future, we, you and I. We have the will and capacity to make it better,” the president concluded. “Ladies and gentlemen, we cannot afford to waste any more time. Let’s get to work. Let’s make our better future now. It’s within our power and our capacity.” Biden will go on to host a bilateral meeting in New York with Australian Prime Minister Scott Morrison at noon before heading back to the White House to meet with the British PM Boris Johnson. Biden met with UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres ahead of Tuesday’s address, during which Biden repeated his mantra “America is back” and that “we believe in the United Nations and its values.” “The vision of the United Nations has never been short in ambition, any more than our Constitution,” Biden added. “Ambition matters. Today, governments must continue to work together in a system to build on international law to deliver equitable prosperity, peace and security for everyone. This is as vital and important today as it was 76 years ago.”   	