                   	News                  September 30, 2021 10:47 PM                   	Speaker of the House Nancy Pelosi holds her weekly news conference with reporters, on Capitol Hill in Washington, D.C., August 6, 2021.     	(Gabrielle Crockett/Reuters)                     The House delayed a vote on the $1 trillion bipartisan infrastructure bill on Thursday, as progressive Democrats refused to support the bill until Congress acts on a reconciliation package projected to cost $3.5 trillion.
An intraparty battle delayed the bipartisan infrastructure effort as progressives held out on supporting the bill in an effort to create leverage for passing the larger package, which includes climate-change initiatives, expansions of health care, public education, paid leave and child-care programs, as well as an array of tax increases. Moderate Senators Kyrsten Sinema (D., Ariz.) and Joe Manchin (D., W.Va.) have refused to support the cost of the reconciliation package, with Manchin suggesting a $1.5 trillion price tag.
“I don’t see a deal tonight,” Manchin told reporters following negotiations with White House officials on Thursday night. Earlier on Thursday, Progressive Caucus chairwoman Pramila Jayapal (D., Wash.) said Democrats did not have the votes to pass the bipartisan infrastructure bill.
“I do not think the infrastructure bill is going to come to a vote tonight,” Jayapal told CNN. “Right now, there are not the votes.”
On Tuesday, Senator Bernie Sanders (I., Vt.) joined Representative Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez (D., N.Y.) and other members of the progressive “Squad” in urging Democrats to vote against the infrastructure bill unless Congress first passed the reconciliation bill. The progressive holdout comes as Sinema and Manchin have refused to settle on a topline figure in negotiations for the social-policy package. White House officials’ efforts to get a public commitment from Manchin and Sinema to vote for the $3.5 trillion plan have proven unsuccessful — imperiling much of President Biden’s agenda. Democrats need all 50 senators in their caucus to support the $3.5 trillion package, which they plan to pass through reconciliation. Reconciliation requires just a simple majority to pass legislation, rather than the 60-vote threshold typically needed.
Manchin reiterated his opposition to the $3.5 trillion reconciliation bill on Wednesday, further intensifying the fight between progressives and moderates ahead of Thursday’s infrastructure vote.       
He called the larger bill the “definition of fiscal insanity” and said he didn’t believe he would reach an agreement with the White House soon.
The West Virginia senator reiterated his concerns about the massive spending package causing inflation and called for the bill’s measures to be means-tested.
“While I am hopeful that common ground can be found that would result in another historic investment in our nation, I cannot — and will not — support trillions in spending or an all-or-nothing approach that ignores the brutal fiscal reality our nation faces,” Manchin said.
Meanwhile, Representative Stephanie Murphy (D., Fla.), a co-chair of the centrist Blue Dog Coalition, warned on Wednesday that if the infrastructure vote failed, “there would be a significant breach in trust that would slow the momentum in moving forward in delivering the Biden agenda.”
Send a tip to the news team at NR.                   	Recommended          	NBC's 'Cataclysmic' Olympics-Coverage Flop     How can anyone feel good about these Olympics?              	Joe Biden Doesn’t Know What You’re Talking About     To watch Biden at the lectern was to experience shock and dismay interspersed with moments of alarm and dark humor. No wonder he hides from the media.              	Nikole Hannah-Jones Responds to Our 1619 and Slavery Issue     She reacted with a lot of sneering and ad hominem argumentation and nothing of substance.              	Maskless Super Bowl Marks Our Return to Normalcy     This collective moment was a warning to the Covid regime that its strictures won’t stand much longer.              	The Perfect Storm Is Coming     Not learning from the stagflationary past may lead to a stagflationary future.              	The Afghanistan Debacle Looks Worse and Worse     The more we learn about the administration’s withdrawal, the more it becomes clear that its decisions were driven by political considerations and panic.       	The Latest          	Nikki Haley Blasts American-Born Skier Competing for China at Beijing Olympics     'Every athlete needs to know when they put their flag on, you're standing for freedom or you're standing for human rights abuses,' said Haley.              	San Francisco Voters Overwhelmingly Back Recall of Progressive School-Board Members     More than 70 percent of voters supported the ouster of school board members Alison Collins, Gabriela López, and Faauuga Moliga.               How Georgetown Is Stifling Speech on Campus     The university is implementing the academic analog of a SLAPP suit against Ilya Shapiro.              	McKinsey Website Contradicts Denials of Chinese-Government Work; Rubio Claims ‘Cover-Up’     The consultancy once said it did work for China’s central government, undercutting recent statements.               	Imagine a Trumpdeau. You Can’t     If Trump had gone after the 2020 rioters the way Trudeau is targeting truckers, the institutions and the permanent government wouldn’t have complied.              	Building Back Stagflation     Our elected leaders must accept that inflation is a monster of their own making, and stop fanning the flames with ever-higher levels of government spending.        