                  	Michael Bloomberg speaks during a news conference at City Hall in New York, September 18, 2013.      	(Brendan McDermid/Reuters)                     Recently-resurfaced audio from a speech that Mike Bloomberg gave about his law enforcement strategy as New York City mayor reveals that his support for the controversial “stop-and-frisk” program, which he has since disavowed due to it’s impact on minority communities, continued until as recently as 2015.
In an audio recording of his 2015 speech at the Aspen Institute, which was obtained by Fox News, Bloomberg can be heard saying that while it may be “controversial,” the way to stop murders is to seize guns from young minority males. “You can just take the description, Xerox it, and pass it out to all of the cops. They are male, minorities, 15 to 25. That’s true in New York, it’s true in virtually every city in America,” Bloomberg said.
President Trump responded to the news by retweeting a clip of the audio and claiming that “BLOOMBERG IS A TOTAL RACIST!” — only to quickly delete it.       Bloomberg is notorious for his “stop and frisk” policy which the NYPD adopted during his time as mayor. In November, Bloomberg apologized for the “overzealous” policy, saying “nobody asked me about it until I started running for president.”
The president has been an outspoken supporter of stop and frisk in the past.
Stop and frisk works. Instead of criticizing @NY_POLICE Chief Ray Kelly, New Yorkers should be thanking him for keeping NY safe.
— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) July 3, 2013
But in his 2015 speech, the former mayor argued that a heavy police presence in minority neighborhoods was necessary to curb violent crime, and suggested that higher minority arrest rates for minor crimes like marijuana possession was an acceptable consequence of that effective strategy.
“So one of the unintended consequences is people say, ‘Oh my God, you are arresting kids for marijuana that are all minorities.’ Yes, that’s true. Why? Because we put all the cops in minority neighborhoods,” Bloomberg is heard saying on the 2015 recording. “Yes, that’s true. Why do we do it? Because that’s where all the crime is. And the way you get the guns out of the kids’ hands is to throw them up against the wall and frisk them… And then they start… ‘Oh I don’t want to get caught.’ So they don’t bring the gun. They still have a gun, but they leave it at home.”
A new national poll conducted by Quinnipiac University and released Monday showed that Bloomberg had gained 14 points among African Americans in a single month, while former vice president Joe Biden dropped over 20 points after a poor performance in Iowa.
Send a tip to the news team at NR.                   	Recommended          	RNC Should Take a Lesson from Mike Pence     The RNC censure resolution was morally repellent, while the former vice president took a stand for the truth.              	NBC's 'Cataclysmic' Olympics-Coverage Flop     How can anyone feel good about these Olympics?              	Nikole Hannah-Jones Responds to Our 1619 and Slavery Issue     She reacted with a lot of sneering and ad hominem argumentation and nothing of substance.              	Joe Biden Doesn’t Know What You’re Talking About     To watch Biden at the lectern was to experience shock and dismay interspersed with moments of alarm and dark humor. No wonder he hides from the media.              	Why Were Authorities So Evasive About the Synagogue Gunman's Motive?     Why were President Biden and the FBI so reluctant to say that the synagogue gunman was motivated by antisemitism and jihadism?              	The Afghanistan Debacle Looks Worse and Worse     The more we learn about the administration’s withdrawal, the more it becomes clear that its decisions were driven by political considerations and panic.       	The Latest          	Maskless Super Bowl Marks Our Return to Normalcy     This collective moment was a warning to the Covid regime that its strictures won’t stand much longer.              	Russian Figure-Skating Prodigy Will Compete at Olympics Despite Failed Drug Test     The IOC has decided it will not hold a medal ceremony for any event in which Valieva places in the top three while the matter remains under investigation.                      The IRS Wants Your Picture     The agency’s plans for facial recognition might be abandoned for now, but its lust for data is never satiated.              	Why America’s Government-Debt Problem Endures     Any meaningful change requires enough Americans deciding that they really do want less government in their lives, and then acting accordingly.              	‘Blame America first,’ &c.     On Jeane Kirkpatrick, today’s Russia debate, Edward Snowden, Ukraine’s right to exist, and more.        