        WASHINGTON — The White House says the Port of Los Angeles, UPS, FedEx and Walmart will commit to 24/7 work hours to alleviate a supply-chain crunch that threatens to leave presents missing from under Christmas trees. President Biden’s aides announced the commitments after mounting international shipping delays. As of this week, nearly 100 massive container ships idled off the Los Angeles coastline, unable to unload their goods. White House Press Secretary Jen Psaki said Wednesday that the changes “will move more goods faster including toys, just in case you’re wondering.” But Psaki would not guarantee that the problems would be fixed quickly. “Based on everything being announced today, can this administration guarantee that holiday packages will arrive on time?” Ed O’Keefe of CBS News asked Psaki at her daily press briefing. Containers are stacked at the Port of Los Angeles in Los Angeles, Friday, Oct. 1, 2021.AP Photo/Jae C. Hong “We are not the Postal Service or UPS or FedEx. We cannot guarantee. What we can do is use every lever at the federal government’s disposal to reduce delays,” Psaki replied. Another journalist, Phil Mattingly of CNN, pressed Psaki about inflation, which has caused a spike in consumer prices for goods that do reach store shelves. Mattingly asked if the Biden administration’s framing of inflation as transitory “could be misleading for folks who don’t necessarily get the ‘transitory’ may be in a year or longer.” “Transitory — I guess I don’t have an assessment of how many people know exactly what that means or what that means to them,” Psaki said. “We know that what the Federal Reserve and Wall Street economists and others are projecting is that the rate of inflation will come down next year.” A spike in demand following the end of coronavirus lockdowns contributed to the high rate of inflation as well as the logjam in container ship traffic. The rise in demand coincides with a record number of people quitting their jobs, exacerbating shortages of goods including clothing, tech items, furniture and most troubling as Christmas nears, toys. UPS, Walmart and FedEx will be working during off peak hours.Christopher Dilts/Bloomberg via Getty Images Biden’s critics say generous pandemic stimulus programs are at least partially to blame for the economic woes. And once the items reach the dock, other hurdles remain in the face of a national shortage of semi-truck drivers. 
“The port of Los Angeles is announcing 24/7 service,” a senior Biden administration official told reporters, joining the nearby Port of Long Beach, which moved to a 24/7 schedule about three weeks ago. The Long Beach and Los Angeles ports complex “functions as one in terms of its economic impact,” the official said. The ports process about 40 percent of international shipping containers bound for the US. “The supply chain is essentially in the hands of the private sector so we need the private sector to step up to help solve these problems,” the official said. “Three of the largest goods carriers in the country — Walmart, FedEx and UPS — will make commitments toward moving to 24/7 working during off peak hours.” The official said that the International Longshore and Warehouse Union “has made a commitment that they will be able to staff 24/7” at the West Coast ports. It’s unclear how dramatically the hours for workers at FedEx, UPS and Walmart would change.Mario Tama/Getty Images It’s unclear how dramatically the hours for workers at FedEx, UPS and Walmart would change, or which workers at those companies would be impacted. Some retailers are so desperate to move their goods that they’re mulling buying their own ships. 
Jo-Ann Stores told The Post that shipping costs to move goods from Asia have increased tenfold since before the pandemic hit.  “Those options are being looked at long-term to mitigate at least some of the risk we are facing” when it comes to the sharply rising shipping prices, CEO Wade Miquelon said. “We have had to spend many tens of millions of dollars” more on shipping than ever before. 
The administration officials cautioned that the changes may not be enough. “These are major commitments, but they’re most effective when every private company along the supply chain does the same thing. And now we’re looking to trucking and freight to expand hours as well to help with bottlenecks,” the official said.   	