   In a newly released Project Veritas video, footage reveals ABC Correspondent David Wright admitting the network doesn’t care about newsworthy stories.
“I feel terrible about it. I feel that the truth suffers, the voters are poorly informed, and people also have the opportunity to tune into whatever they want to hear,” Wright said. “And so, it’s like there’s no upside, or our bosses don’t see an upside in doing the job we’re supposed to do, which is to speak truth to power and hold people accountable.”
While Wright says he feels bad that ABC doesn’t inform voters, in a separate conversation, Wright said he believes ABC News isn’t even interested in voters.
“I don’t think we’re terribly interested in voters. We need the story to move on, and so we’re happy to have Buttigieg be the story last week, and we’re happy to have Klobuchar as a new subject this week, and then when we’re tired of her, we’ll be delighted if Elizabeth Warren kicks -ss in Nevada because then we have something new to talk about,” said Wright.
“We just want conflict,” Andy Flies, an ABC producer, chimed in. Wright continued to admit ABC doesn’t hold Trump accountable nor give him credit for his successful policies. Instead, the network is far more interested in the outrage, investigations, and aspects of backstabbing allegedly happening within the White House.
“We don’t hold [Trump] to account. We also don’t give him credit for what things he does do. Again, I think some of that at least in the place that I work and the places like it is that we’ve, with Trump we’re, interested in three things. We’re interested in the outrage of the day, the investigation, and of the palace of intrigue of who’s backstabbing whom. Beyond that, we don’t really cover the guy,” Wright said.
This admission isn’t coming from a Trump-sympathizer. In the Project Veritas footage Wright can be heard declaring himself a socialist. When asked if he was a democratic socialist, he responded by saying he’s just a socialist.
“Like, more than [a democratic socialist], I’d consider myself a socialist. Like I think there should be national health insurance. I’m totally fine with reining in corporations, I think there are too many billionaires, and I think that there’s a wealth gap. That’s a problem,” Wright said.
At the end of the video, Wright and his co-workers are heard discussing the downfall of truth and accountability at ABC and in journalism at large.
“We’ve lost, at least in television, we’ve lost any sense of context and perspective and it’s just, the urgent moment, the horse race and the outrage from Trump,” Wright said. “We often talk about how it used to be better.”
Wright concluded by admitting other companies such as CBS and NBC are also guilty of becoming profit centers instead of arbiters of truth.
“We’re all guilty of the same thing. I think that all the big news organizations, I’m speaking about broadcast television. That’s all I’m speaking about. ABC, CBS, NBC. And we recognize that we are dinosaurs and we’re in danger of dying,” Wright said.     Chrissy Clark is a freelance reporter. She reports on higher education and college campus issues. Her work is featured in The Daily Wire, the Washington Free Beacon, and The Daily Signal. Follow her on social media @chrissyclark_ or contact her at clarkchrissy58@gmail.com      ABCDavid WrightMainstream MediaProject Veritasundercover      