        The White House announced Friday that President Biden will make his first foreign trip in June with stops in the UK and Belgium. Biden has avoided travel due to the COVID-19 pandemic, despite being vaccinated, but will make the trip to participate in annual G7 and NATO summits. White House press secretary Jen Psaki said, “This trip will highlight his commitment to restoring our alliances, revitalizing the trans-Atlantic relationship, and working in close cooperation with our allies and multilateral partners to address global challenges and better secure America’s interests.” The G7 summit in Cornwall, England, is scheduled for June 11-13 and Biden will use the stop to “reinforce our commitment to multilateralism, work to advance key US policy priorities on public health, economic recovery, and climate change, and demonstrate solidarity and shared values among major democracies,” Psaki said. The Carbis Bay Estate hotel and beach, set to be the main venue for the upcoming G7 summit, is seen from a drone on March 2, 2021 in Carbis Bay, Cornwall.Getty Images Biden is expected to hold one-on-one meetings with leaders of the six other member countries, including British Prime Minister Boris Johnson. The NATO summit in Belgium is booked for June 14.“President Biden will affirm the United States’ commitment to NATO, trans-Atlantic security, and collective defense. NATO leaders will discuss how to orient the alliance to future threats and ensure effective burden sharing,” Psaki said. NATO foreign ministers meet at the alliance’s headquarters in Brussels.POOL/AFP via Getty Images During the Belgium stop, Biden also will “participate in a US–EU Summit, which will underscore our commitment to a strong trans-Atlantic partnership based on shared interests and values.” Psaki’s announcement said nothing about a possible summit meeting with Russian President Vladimir Putin. Biden said this month that he offered Putin a summit meeting “this summer in Europe.” President Joe Biden delivers remarks and participates in the virtual Leaders Summit on Climate from the White House.Jim Watson/Getty Images    	