      	President Trump pressed the Democratic governor of North Carolina on Monday to “guarantee” that he will allow “full capacity” at this summer’s Republican National Convention, dangling the economic blow Charlotte would take if the event were held elsewhere.
“I love the Great State of North Carolina, so much so that I insisted on having the Republican National Convention in Charlotte at the end of August. Unfortunately, Democrat Governor, @RoyCooperNC is still in Shutdown mood & unable to guarantee that by August we will be allowed full attendance in the Arena,” the president wrote on Twitter.
Trump said Republicans “must be immediately given an answer by the Governor as to whether or not the space will be allowed to be fully occupied. If not, we will be reluctantly forced to find, with all of the jobs and economic development it brings, another Republican National Convention site.”
“This is not something I want to do. Thank you, and I LOVE the people of North Carolina!,” Trump continued.
He said the RNC would spend millions of dollars “building the Arena to a very high standard without even knowing if the Democrat Governor would allow the Republican Party to fully occupy the space. Plans are being made by many thousands of enthusiastic Republicans, and others, to head to beautiful North Carolina in August.”
Cooper’s office put out a statement saying state health officials “are working with the RNC and will review its plans as they make decisions about how to hold the convention in Charlotte.”
North Carolina Gov. Roy CooperAP
“North Carolina is relying on data and science to protect our state’s public health and safety,” it said.
North Carolina, which has more than 22,000 coronavirus cases, entered Phase 2 of its reopening plan on Friday, with Governor Roy Cooper describing it as a “modest” approach.
Cooper’s executive order replaced the stay-at-home orders with “safer-at-home” guidelines, The Charlotte News and Observer reported.
Phase 3 isn’t expected to begin until June 26.
The convention is scheduled to be held in Charlotte from Aug. 24 to Aug. 27.   	