    Sebelius has become the face of the Obamacare website mess. | M.Scott Mahaskey/POLITICO Health and Human Services Secretary Kathleen Sebelius said Wednesday that America “deserves better” than the botched Obamacare rollout and said she’s accountable for fixing HealthCare.gov problems that were far worse than the administration anticipated.  “You deserve better. I apologize. I’m accountable to you for fixing these problems and I’m committed to earning your confidence back by fixing the site,” Sebelius told a House panel.  Even as she took responsibility for the balky rollout, HealthCare.gov was down Wednesday morning, creating a brutal split-screen moment on cable TV that showed the website “system down” message and a cabinet secretary under fire.  Her testimony represents a high stakes moment in public perception of the first month of the Obamacare rollout. Sebelius tried to take responsibility for what she herself called a debacle, while sending a message to the American people that the landmark health care law isn’t a total disaster.  ( Also on POLITICO: As turmoil swirls, Sebelius takes hot seat)  Sebelius acknowledged, though, the law’s messy rollout has hurt the administration’s credibility, even as it now assures the public that the Obamacare website should be running smoothly for most users by Nov. 30.  “I know there’s no confidence in that date until we deliver on that,” she said.  Sebelius said she won’t release signup numbers until mid-November or allow contractors to speak about them until she knows the information is confirmed and reliable. Right now, she acknowledged, even the insurers aren’t getting accurate and complete data about their new customers.  “They [insurers] are not getting reliable data all the way through the systems,” she said. “The system isn’t functioning so we are not getting that reliable data. Insurers who I met with said that is the case.”  ( PHOTOS: Sebelius testifies on Obamacare rollout)  Despite a growing chorus of Republicans calling for Sebelius to resign, no one during the three-and-a-half hour hearing demanded that she quit. Only Rep. Michael Burgess (R-Texas) requested that Sebelius call for the resignation of Gary Cohen, the administration official heading the federal exchange office within HHS. Sebelius declined.  But short of demanding that she exit, Republican lawmakers wasted no time ripping into Sebelius at the House Energy and Commerce Committee hearing, her first congressional appearance in months.  “Over the months leading up to the Oct. 1 launch, the secretary and her colleagues at HHS repeatedly looked us in the eye and testified that everything was on track,” said chairman Fred Upton (R-Mich.). “But something happened along the way – either those officials did not know how bad the situation was, or they did not disclose it.”  Rep. Henry Waxman and other Democrats offered their confidence in Sebelius. “I would urge my colleagues to stop hyperventilating,” the California Democrat said. “The problems with HealthCare.gov are unfortunate and we should investigate them, but they will be fixed.”  ( PODCAST: Questioning Obamacare glitches - who knew what, when?)  Sebelius has become the face of the Obamacare website mess, and she didn’t get the same polite treatment that Marilyn Tavenner, administrator of the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, received Tuesday when she testified before a separate House panel.  Even as the lawmakers questioned her, HealthCare.gov experienced problems because of an outage at a data center hosted by Verizon Terremark — just days after a similar outage took down the system Sunday night. HealthCare.gov is the main portal for coverage in the 36 states that are not running their own health insurance exchanges, and the system also provides key information to the state-run exchanges. CMS communications director Julie Bataille said at a daily briefing that the outage took down both the enrollment application and the federal data hub, affecting both the federal and the state exchanges. The state portion was up, although still a bit slow, and once the rest of the fix was done “we will take immediate steps to prevent this from happening again.”  Sebelius’s testimony came a day after Tavenner apologized to the millions who’ve struggled to log into HealthCare.gov and promised that it’s getting better every day. Tavenner told the Ways and Means Committee that she’s in charge of the massive new entitlement program, but Sebelius took ownership of the Obamacare problems.  “Hold me accountable for the debacle,” she said. “I’m responsible.”  Lawmakers drilled into who knew about the technical troubles, when they knew it— and why they pressed ahead with a damaged product. On Tuesday night, a separate House committee released a document that they said proves a prime contractor had warned the administration that HealthCare.gov wasn’t ready. Federal health officials disputed that the document was a “dire warning” and shows that major milestones were on track.  Sebelius said contractors and agency staff assured her that the website would be ready on Oct. 1, a message that she shared with the president. Leading contractors building the website never suggested delaying the rollout, she said.  “Our CMS team felt we were ready to go. I told the president that we were ready to go,” Sebelius said. “Clearly I was wrong. We were wrong. We knew that in any big, new complicated system, there would be problems. No one ever imagined the volume of issues and problems that were met and we must fix them.”  Sebelius explained a last-minute decision to turn off a “window shopping” feature on HealthCare.gov was made by Tavenner just weeks before Oct. 1 to avoid burdening the system. But she admitted that the requirement to create an account before viewing health plans may actually have worsened system performance.  “We were anxious to get the website up and running and functional, which we clearly have failed to do,” she said. “They pared down some of the features” to help the site run, she said.  Later Wednesday, President Barack Obama in Boston tried again to sell his health care law as an expanded version of the successful Massachusetts reform effort implemented by his 2012 Republican rival, Mitt Romney. Obama urged Republicans to work with Democrats to improve Obamacare, just as political leaders worked across the aisle on the 2006 Massachusetts health care law.  “Wrong rally,” he quipped when someone in the crowd heckled about the Keystone pipeline.  Republicans this week started to pivot from the website woes — which the administration says will ease in a month — to increased reports of premium hikes and people being forced off their existing individual health plans.  “I would guess there are a lot of us on this panel who are hearing from angry and confused constituents who are now being forced to go onto an inept website whether they like it or not to shop for a new replacement plan,” Upton said.  The White House has been trying to shoot down those reports, contending that insurers voluntarily brought existing health plans into compliance with the Affordable Care Act’s reforms taking effect in January. Obamacare supporters argue that the health law improves benefits and consumer protections in the individual market, and they say most will receive financial help to get covered.  “They must be offered new plans,” Sebelius said, rejecting criticism that Obama broke a promise that people can keep their existing health plans if they like them. But Republican lawmakers on the House panel shared constituent letters about cancellation notices and premiums hikes.  “Holy Pinocchios!” was the headline of a release emailed from Speaker John Boehner’s office Wednesday, highlighting critical news coverage of plan cancellations and the administration’s explanations.  House Republicans also had the briefing they had demanded from Mike Hash,director of HHS’s Office of Health Reform, after Democrats had a similar session recently. But only 10 to 20 showed up. House leaders said the briefing had been more urgent before House panels had three hearings on the Obamacare launch.  Jessica Meyers, Paige Winfield Cunningham, Kyle Cheney and David Nather contributed to this report. 
