In a lengthy Facebook message posted Wednesday, Nick Cannon apologized to the Jewish community for his recent inflammatory, anti-Semitic remarks. But he also stood firm against ViacomCBS—which terminated its relationship with him over Cannon’s comments—and demanded the corporation give him the rights to his lucrative, long-running comedy series Wild ’N Out.“I demand full ownership of my billion dollar ‘Wild ’N Out’ brand that I created, and they will continue to misuse and destroy without my leadership!” he wrote.Cannon also pushed back on ViacomCBS’s apparent claim that he did not attempt to make amends after his remarks went viral, saying he even went so far as to reach out to ViacomCBS chair Shari Redstone, but didn’t hear back from her. “That’s when I realized they don’t want a conversation or growth, they wanted to put the young negro in his place,” Cannon wrote. “They wanted to show me who is boss, hang me out to dry and make an example of anyone who says something they don’t agree with.” A spokesperson for ViacomCBS contests that account: “It is absolutely untrue that Nick Cannon reached out to the Chair of ViacomCBS,” they told V.F. Vanity Fair has reached out to representatives for Cannon for comment.The Wild ’N Out creator came under fire after the June 30 episode of his podcast Cannon’s Class went viral. In it, Cannon said that Black people are “the true Hebrews.”“You can’t be anti-Semitic when we are the Semitic people,” he said. “When we are the same people who they want to be. That’s our birthright.”He also discussed conspiracy theories about the Rothschild family and espoused the teachings of Nation of Islam leader Louis Farrakhan—who has been described as an anti-Semite by the Southern Poverty Law Center and the Anti-Defamation League. After his remarks began circulating, Cannon issued a statement Monday. “I have no hate in my heart nor malice intentions,” he wrote on Twitter. “I do not condone hate speech nor the spread of hateful rhetoric. We are living in a time when it is more important than ever to promote unity and understanding.”ViacomCBS, however, responded by terminating its relationship with Cannon, who’s been involved in network projects since the late ’90s, when he joined the cast of Nickelodeon series All That, later starring in The Nick Cannon Show in 2002 and 2003 and creating Wild ’N Out for MTV in 2005. The popular improv comedy series, now in its 15th season, has also spawned successful tours, as well as a spinoff restaurant.“ViacomCBS condemns bigotry of any kind and we categorically denounce all forms of anti-Semitism. We have spoken with Nick Cannon about an episode of his podcast ‘Cannon’s Class’ on YouTube, which promoted hateful speech and spread anti-Semitic conspiracy theories,” ViacomCBS said in a statement Tuesday, per Variety. “While we support ongoing education and dialogue in the fight against bigotry, we are deeply troubled that Nick has failed to acknowledge or apologize for perpetuating anti-Semitism, and we are terminating our relationship with him. We are committed to doing better in our response to incidents of anti-Semitism, racism, and bigotry. ViacomCBS will have further announcements on our efforts to combat hate of all kinds.”In his Facebook post, Cannon stood firm in his stance against ViacomCBS, now demanding an apology from the company.“I honestly can’t believe that Viacom has such poor council that would allow them to make such a divisive decision in the midst of protests and civil uprising within our current pandemic,” he said. He also claimed the company decided to “ban all advertisement that supported George Floyd and Breonna Taylor,” Black victims of police brutality whose deaths sparked protests nationwide. A spokesperson for ViacomCBS tells Vanity Fair Cannon is likely responding to a Wall Street Journal report about networks like MTV blocking ads referencing the ongoing protests from appearing around the reality competition series Revenge Prank. “Due to the comedic nature of the show we believe is in question ‘Revenge Prank,’ we didn’t want to be insensitive by placing ads for it next to important and serious topics, such as Black Lives Matter,” the spokesperson said in a statement. “This is standard practice we use with our media agency to ensure that our ads don't come across as tone-deaf or disrespectful.”