    The White House underscored Brennan's close working relationship with the president. President Barack Obama on Monday nominated the White House’s point person on counterterrorism, John Brennan, to be the next director of the Central Intelligence Agency.  Brennan, a 25-year veteran of the CIA, currently holds the title of Deputy National Security Adviser for Homeland Security and Counterterrorism. He appeared with Obama at a White House event where the president also announced his nomination of former Sen. Chuck Hagel (R-Neb.) to be the next defense secretary.  ( PHOTOS: John Brennan’s career)  “John knows what our national security demands,” Obama said at the afternoon announcement in the East Room. “John has an invaluable perspective on the forces, the history, the culture, the politics, economics, the desire for human dignity driving so much of the changes in today’s world. … He knows the risks that our intelligence professionals face every day.”  Obama said Brennan deserves considerable credit for the U.S. victories against Al Qaeda in recent years.  “Think about the results: More al Qaeda leaders and commanders have been removed from the battlefield than at any time since 9/11,” the president added. “In all this work, John Brennan has been tireless. … He is one of the hardest-working public servants I’ve ever seen. I’m not sure he’s slept in four years.”  Brennan said taking over the CIA would be the pinnacle of his career.  “Leading the agency in which I served for 25 years would be the greatest privilege as well as the greatest responsibility of my professional life,” Brennan said.  Obama aides said Brennan would be able to make a seamless transition to the CIA.  “Brennan’s career of service and extraordinary record has prepared him to be an outstanding director of the CIA. Brennan served for decades at the Agency. Since 9/11, he has been on the front lines in the fight against al Qaeda. Over the past four years, he has been involved in virtually all major national security issues and will be able to hit the ground running at CIA,” the White House said in talking points supporting his nomination provided to POLITICO early Monday. White House officials also underscored the close working relationship Brennan has developed with the president over the past four years, as Brennan led the administration’s response to a string of attempted terrorist attacks.  “Brennan has the full trust and confidence of the President,” the talking points say. “For four years, he has seen the President every day, and been by his side for some of his toughest decisions — including the decision to launch the bin Laden raid. Brennan is as close to President Obama as any member of his national security team.”  ( PHOTOS: The shortlist for Obama’s top jobs)  Brennan has been deeply involved in the Obama administration’s aggressive use of drones to kill suspected terrorists in Pakistan, Yemen, Somalia and elsewhere. He was reportedly considered as a possible CIA director at the outset of Obama’s first term but took his name out of the running after liberals charged that he was complicit in waterboarding and other tough interrogation tactics that President George W. Bush’s administration used against terror suspects.  Obama stressed Monday that Brennan “worked to embed [counterterrorism] efforts in a strong legal framework.”  Brennan also seemed to address his critics on the left when he declared: “If confirmed as director, I will make it my mission to ensure that the CIA has the tools it needs to keep our nation safe and that its work always reflects the liberties and the freedoms and the values that we hold so dear.”  If confirmed, Brennan would fill a vacancy created when retired Gen. David Petraeus abruptly resigned as CIA director in November after acknowledging an extramarital affair. Deputy CIA Director Michael Morell has been filling in as acting director since Petraeus left and was also considered a leading contender for the nomination set to be announced Monday.  Before becoming a top adviser to Obama during the 2008 campaign, Brennan spent more than two decades at the CIA as an analyst and served as the agency’s station chief in Saudi Arabia. During the Bush era, he served as deputy executive director of the CIA and later as director of the National Counterterrorism Center. 
