Dec. 2, 2013The Metro-North Railroad train that hurtled off the rails on a sleepy holiday weekend morning was traveling 82 miles per hour as it approached one of the sharpest curves in the region’s rail system, federal investigators said on Monday — nearly three times the speed permitted through the turn.The throttle was still engaged — giving the engine power — until six seconds before the locomotive, in the rear of the train, came to a stop around 7:20 a.m. Sunday after the train careered toward the Harlem River, killing four people and injuring more than 70, north of Spuyten Duyvil station in the Bronx, officials said. The National Transportation Safety Board is leading the investigation, and a board member, Earl Weener, said the train’s sudden power shift came “very late in the game.” The board cautioned that it remained unclear if the speed was the result of human error or faulty equipment. But the extraordinary speed shed new light on the deadliest New York City train derailment in more than two decades and heightened the focus on the veteran engineer at the center of the investigation. The maximum allowable speed through the curve is 30 m.p.h.; even the straightaway north of the crash site permits speeds no greater than 70 m.p.h.Asked if the safety board was looking into the possibility that the engineer, William Rockefeller, fell asleep, was using his cellphone or was otherwise distracted, a spokesman for the board, Keith Holloway, said, “Part of our investigation, as in all investigations, is to look at human performance factors.”ImageCredit...Eric Thayer/ReutersMr. Rockefeller’s cellphone was recovered as “part of our routine process,” Mr. Weener said, and the results of drug and alcohol tests conducted after the crash were not yet known. Mr. Rockefeller was treated at a hospital and released.The authorities said that the train’s brakes appeared to have been operating effectively shortly before the crash. “We are not aware of any problems or anomalies with the brakes,” Mr. Weener said.Senator Charles E. Schumer noted, “The train did make nine stops before coming to this curve. So clearly the brakes were working a short time before.”He added that he was told by the safety board that the tracks in the area also seemed to have been in proper condition.The revelations came as workers raised the train cars — all seven and the locomotive had been derailed — and thousands of commuters were forced to use alternative routes. The police and prosecutors began a parallel investigation to see if a crime had been committed.The safety board’s interview with Mr. Rockefeller, a Metro-North employee who lives in Germantown, N.Y., was cut short Monday afternoon and is to continue this week, officials said.ImageCredit...Ángel Franco/The New York TimesAnthony Bottalico, the acting director of the Association of Commuter Rail Employees, said that the interview was postponed because of “the trauma of the whole thing and the lack of sleep” for Mr. Rockefeller.Several law enforcement officials said that detectives from the New York City and Metropolitan Transportation Authority police, with assistance from the office of the Bronx district attorney, Robert T. Johnson, were mounting an investigation parallel to the safety board’s inquiry.That was being done to collect evidence if officials determine a crime occurred, three law enforcement officials said. The safety board is not a law enforcement agency; its role is limited to issuing findings and making recommendations. Prosecutors from Mr. Johnson’s office were at the scene of the derailment on Sunday, and two officials said the prosecutors had issued subpoenas for the engineer’s blood samples, for drug and alcohol testing, and for his cellphone.Mr. Bottalico predicted that “when all is said and done here,” the authorities would find there was “no criminal intent.”A senior official with the transportation authority has said that Mr. Rockefeller initially told emergency workers that he “dumped the brakes,” an emergency maneuver, after he realized he was traveling too quickly.ImageCredit...Michael Kirby Smith for The New York TimesMr. Weener said that six seconds before the rear locomotive came to a stop, “the throttle was reduced to idle.” The brakes were fully applied one second later.Marjorie Anders, a transportation authority spokeswoman, said that the front car, where the engineer was positioned, had a “dead man’s pedal,” which operators must keep depressed to avoid automatic braking.A crucial question, officials said, was why the train was traveling so fast as to require an emergency maneuver. Mr. Weener said that the transportation authority had provided surveillance video from the nearby Henry Hudson Bridge, but that the footage was “of low quality” and would be sent to Washington to be enhanced at the safety board’s laboratory. The rate of speed was determined by the safety board using the train’s onboard data recorders recovered at the scene.For those close to Mr. Rockefeller, who rose from the ranks of Grand Central Terminal custodians to a six-figure job as an engineer, Sunday’s crash was particularly harrowing.VideoReligious leaders gathered in the Bronx on Monday night for a memorial service overlooking the scene of Sunday's train derailment, in which four people died.Friends described Mr. Rockefeller as a mechanically inclined tinkerer and a former volunteer firefighter. Michael McLendon, a friend and former boss, recalled his early days on the job at Grand Central in the 1990s.After taking a job at Metro-North’s control center at the terminal, Mr. McLendon said, Mr. Rockefeller’s attention turned toward train engineering.Mr. Bottalico said this shift on the Hudson line had been his regular job since Nov. 17, though he said Mr. Rockefeller was a veteran of the line and was familiar with the route. It was not an overtime shift, he said.Mr. Bottalico added that a conductor and assistant conductor were interviewed on Monday.Ms. Anders said on Monday that the tracks north of the station did not include any kind of marker telling engineers when to slow down.“Engineers are required to know maximum authorized speeds and speed restrictions as part of their territory qualification,” she said.By early afternoon, all of the train’s cars had been righted with the help of cranes. Some had missing windows. The derailment left a broad swath of dark soil in the area where the train had come to a stop, as if the surface had been plowed.