    House Democrats and Senate Republicans are getting details largely through the media. Largely shut out of the budget negotiations, Capitol Hill’s minority parties are getting increasingly antsy about the emerging agreement.  Senate Republicans and House Democrats are learning the details of a possible deal largely through the media. For Republicans, their unease is caused by news that domestic spending may surpass existing caps, fueled by an increase in fees on government services. House Democrats are growing angry over the increased likelihood that federal workers’ benefits are going to be cut and the possible exclusion of unemployment insurance.  “At the Democratic caucus meetings this last week in the House, there was in some senior places some great agita about the process and about the reports of the substance coming out of that process like I haven’t seen in a long time,” Rep. Gerry Connolly (D-Va.) said. “It had to do with numbers, reported numbers, it had to do with provisions, it had to do with specific policy positions — a whole laundry list of issues.”  ( Also on POLITICO: Budget talks turn to military pensions)  Despite their worries, there may be little that Senate Republicans and House Democrats can do to stop a budget deal being crafted by Sen. Patty Murray (D-Wash.) and Rep. Paul Ryan (R-Wis.). The House and Senate Budget committee chairmen want to reach a deal before the Dec. 13 deadline, when the House is expected to recess for the year.  In order for a deal to pass, Senate Democrats will need to win over only five Republicans, which aides in both parties predict is a strong possibility. And most House Democrats would likely join Republicans in passing a deal, fearful of being tagged with an obstructionist label often pinned on the GOP.  Due to the nature of one-on-one talks between Ryan and Murray, hundreds of members of Congress have been largely excluded from the information pipeline, including some members of leadership in both parties. Senate Republicans who may staunchly oppose the emerging deal have been loath to criticize the ongoing talks in a show of loyalty to Ryan. They also want to avoid the ugliness of the October shutdown debate, when the GOP was divided hopelessly on strategy for weeks.  “Everybody wants to basically give [Ryan] as much time and space as he can to get to the best deal that he can,” said one Republican source, who predicted that “it won’t take long for you to see the kind of combat that you’ve seen here in recent months and years.”  ( PHOTOS: Paul Ryan through the years)  The fear among Republicans is that there may be another flare of intraparty war if the budget deal trades a spending increase now for savings later, uses fee increases to increase spending rather than for deficit reduction or does not adhere to the $2.1 trillion in savings over 10 years as established by the Budget Control Act.  As angst over the content of the deal grows, the possibility increases that House Democrats or Senate Republicans could mount an attack to stop — or at least slow down — a deal.  The Senate GOP’s right flank is worried that cuts to mandatory spending could be punted into future years. It is also wary of reforms that smack of gimmickry and could be difficult to explain to constituents in comparison to the blunt spending reductions enforced by the sequester.  “I’m not a big fan of giving up what are real cuts today with the promise of cuts tomorrow,” said Sen. Rand Paul (R-Ky.), a strong backer of the sequester spending level. “I’m not for trading sequester cuts for mandatory.”  Keeping domestic and defense spending at $967 billion for 2014 has long been the top priority of Senate Republicans, who worked feverishly to support the 2011 Budget Control Act that birthed the sequester and the tight spending caps. There are electoral concerns as well: Keeping spending down is a top campaign issue for Republicans hoping to capture the Senate in 2014.  Adhering to the budget caps was the one victory Senate Minority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-Ky.) and his Senate colleagues could point to when the government reopened after a 16-day shutdown in October. Before the Senate left for a two-week recess, McConnell expressed his desire to maintain those spending levels privately to House Republican leaders and told reporters that revisiting the Budget Control Act is a “bad idea.”  “I wish the budget conference well. But I do hope that at end of the day we’ll support the Budget Control Act. It’s the law of the land. It sets out the caps to be achieved,” the Republican leader said last month. “We know that it’s been highly successful; we’ve reduced government spending for two years in a row for the first time since after the Korean War. I think it’s a bad idea to revisit a law that is actually working and reducing spending for the government.” Ryan and Murray are discussing a deal that would boost discretionary spending to $1 trillion, which would break the BCA caps but find some savings from federal pensions and revenue from fees elsewhere to offset them. Senate Republicans could be amenable to exceeding the $967 billion level — particularly when it comes to defense spending, which might be cut by an additional $20 billion in January — as long as commensurate cuts are made on the mandatory side of spending.  The goal would be “keeping the top line numbers the same, whether that’s through current discretionary cuts or a mix of discretionary and REAL, mandatory cuts,” a senior GOP aide wrote in an email, emphasizing that budgetary illusions would not be popular among Senate Republicans.  While Senate Republicans have remained largely mum on the budget talks, the unhappiness on the House side about the emerging deal began to bubble to the surface late last week.  Democratic leadership, including top Budget Democrat Rep. Chris Van Hollen of Maryland, met Thursday morning to discuss the budget talks. Shortly thereafter, Democrats began publicly pushing back against the forming contours of a deal.  Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi of California stopped just short of saying she wouldn’t back a deal if it didn’t include a one-year extension of emergency unemployment benefits. House Minority Whip Steny Hoyer of Maryland blasted the idea of cutting federal worker benefits as part of a budget fix. And Van Hollen issued his own proposal, criticizing the budget negotiators for considering raising Transportation Security Administration fees but not closing private jet tax loopholes.  It appeared on Friday the negotiators began taking notice of Pelosi’s request, with Murray requesting unemployment insurance be included.  Connolly, along with fellow Northern Virginia Democratic Rep. Jim Moran, vowed to vote against any deal that changes federal worker benefits.  “There is an irrational fetish among some on the other side of the aisle about federal employees,” Connolly said. “It has turned into a nasty, almost relentless, negative narrative on federal employees and the federal workplace.”  Senate Democrats from the Washington area could become an obstacle as well: Sen. Ben Cardin (D-Md.) wrote in a letter to Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid that he is “outraged” federal workers are being targeted.  As with past fiscal deals like reopening the government, a number of House Democrats are going to be necessary to pass a budget bill. If Ryan signs off on an agreement, he’s likely to pick up a number of Republicans, including appropriators and defense hawks. But anything that raises spending beyond sequester levels is likely to lose a number of the GOP’s most conservative members.  “There is concern that this is a Senate-driven deal,” said Rep. Raul Grijalva (D-Ariz.), the co-chairman of the Congressional Progressive Caucus. “Whole-scale walking away from this deal from House Democrats jeopardizes this, there’s no doubt about it. But whole-scale means three-quarters.”  Connolly said the most frustrating part is not knowing for sure what the deal could include, because the information is coming out in drips. If more members were just aware of the facts, Connolly said, the pushback would likely be softer.  “It helps to give members the tools they need, the information they need in which to make an informed decision,” he said. 
