                                                                                                        January 2, 2014 / 11:58 AM      / CBS News                            
Two
months after a Congress mired in partisan congestion gave way to the first
government shutdown in 17 years, a mere one in 20 Americans believe the U.S.
system of democracy works well and needs no changes, according to an AP-NORC Center for Public Affairs Research poll out Thursday. Heading into the new year with a grotesquely pessimistic outlook on their
country’s government, half of Americans said it needs either “a lot of changes”
or a complete overhaul. And 70 percent said they’re not confident lawmakers will
manage to “make progress on the important problems and issues facing the
country in 2014.” Those
problems, respondents suggested, are topped by health care reform, jobs and the
economy and the country’s debt, respectively. Eighty percent of Americans said
they hope the government focuses substantial energy on those issues in the
coming year, but only 76 percent said they expect to see real progress.
When
it comes to the economy in particular, the last best hope, respondents
suggested, is Americans themselves. Though a majority said they’re not
optimistic about their chances of grasping the American Dream, most qualified
that they have at least some faith in their abilities to handle their own
problems in 2014.
Still,
more than half of those polled said they want a strong government hand helping
them sort out “today’s complex economic problems.” In general, the population
remains split on how active the government should be in the lives of citizens:
half said “the less government the better,” and 48 percent said “there are more
things that government should be doing.”
Sloping
faith in government is an aging trend: the percentage of Americans who think
the United States governing system is heading in the right direction hasn’t
topped 50 in almost 10 years. What’s more, few express hope that it can
improve, with half saying they’re pessimistic about the United States’ ability
to produce strong leaders, and 61 percent doubting the effectiveness of the way
leaders are chosen.             Lindsey Boerma                         Lindsey Boerma is senior video producer for CBSNews.com.                                                           Twitter                                           Thanks for reading CBS NEWS.   Create your free account or log in for more features.                           Please enter email address to continue                      Please enter valid email address to continue                                                                                 
EMERGENCY COMPONENT - NATIONAL        EMERGENCY COMPONENT - NATIONAL        EMERGENCY COMPONENT - NATIONAL        EMERGENCY COMPONENT - NATIONAL        