Jan. 10, 2014WASHINGTON — The Obama administration on Friday made the latest contribution to a fast-moving legal battle over same-sex marriage rights as the Justice Department said that the federal government would recognize as lawful the marriages of some 1,300 same-sex couples in Utah even though the state government is largely refusing to do so. The announcement furthered President Obama’s self-described evolution on same-sex marriage rights. He was once a politician who said he was “not in favor of gay marriage” and repeatedly invoked the rights of states to decide how marriage should be defined. More recently, he said “I think same-sex couples should be able to get married,” and now his administration appears to be edging closer to confronting a state government over its refusal to recognize such rights.The statement also provided a new twist in a fight that has pitted notions of individual equality against the right of states to define marriage as a majority of their voters see fit. It added to legal confusion surrounding the status of couples who married in a brief window after a Federal District Court judge unexpectedly struck down Utah’s ban on same-sex marriages last month, before the Supreme Court stayed the ruling on Monday, effectively shutting down any further same-sex nuptials in the state for the duration of the litigation.“I am confirming today that, for purposes of federal law, these marriages will be recognized as lawful and considered eligible for all relevant federal benefits on the same terms as other same-sex marriages,” said Attorney General Eric H. Holder Jr. in an unusual video announcement on the Justice Department website. “These families should not be asked to endure uncertainty regarding their status as the litigation unfolds.”Same-sex couples in Utah had rushed to marry after Dec. 20, when Judge Robert J. Shelby of Federal District Court in Utah overturned the state’s voter-approved ban on marriage for gay couples. Utah unsuccessfully petitioned two lower courts to halt those weddings, then succeeded in persuading the United States Supreme Court to issue a stay while the state appeals. On Wednesday, Gov. Gary R. Herbert announced that the ban, an amendment to the Utah Constitution, was back in legal force while the litigation continued, something that could take years. During that time, he said, the state would not recognize or confer new marital benefits to those same-sex couples who had married.But with Friday’s announcement, same-sex couples in Utah who married will be able to file joint federal income tax returns and will be eligible for other spousal benefits, like health insurance for the families of federal employees and the ability to sponsor a noncitizen spouse for a family visa.Mr. Herbert’s office issued a mild response, saying that the Justice Department’s decision “comes as no surprise” and that state agencies would treat such couples as married when they are administering federal, though not state, benefits. No examples were listed.“Adherence to the rule of law, both federal and state as those laws govern respectively, is an unbending principle of this administration,” the statement said.Some groups opposed to same-sex marriage denounced the Justice Department decision. Brian Brown, the president of the National Organization for Marriage, said in a statement that the move was “outrageous,” adding that “the Department of Justice under this administration signals that it simply has no regard for the Constitution and the rule of law.”VideoAttorney General Eric H. Holder Jr. says the United States will recognize same-sex marriages officiated in Utah, despite a decision by the state not to do so.In Utah, gay couples and supporters of same-sex marriage cheered the federal government’s move. Many were disappointed and angered by the state’s decision not to recognize their new marriages, and have argued that, despite the continuing legal battle, their nuptials are just as valid as any other in Utah.“It feels like a little victory after the last couple days with our governor,” said Austin Vance, who married his partner last month at the Salt Lake County clerk’s office, with hundreds of other gay couples. “It definitely raises spirits a little bit. It was disturbing that our governor would make those assertions that we wouldn’t be recognized.”“We’re going to continue to file and act as if we’re married,” he added. “Some people have said that’s an act of civil disobedience. If it is, so be it.”Mr. Holder did not detail the administration’s legal reasoning, although he invoked the “spirit” of a ruling in June by the Supreme Court that struck down a law banning federal recognition of same-sex marriages that states considered legal. That ruling ended what had been the federal practice of distinguishing between same-sex and opposite-sex married couples based on the federal Defense of Marriage Act.The Obama administration decision has created a kind of mirror image to that situation: The federal government will treat two sets of Utah couples equally, while their state will treat them differently.Michael C. Dorf, a Cornell University law professor, said it was unclear why the federal government’s view could trump Utah’s. “I’m extremely sympathetic to the pro-equality judgment underlying Holder’s statement, but I’m dubious about the legal authority in light of the apparently contrary decision by Utah,” Mr. Dorf said in an interview, although he listed several possible theories supporting the Justice Department’s action on his legal blog.A Justice Department official said that earlier this week, Mr. Holder assigned Stuart F. Delery, the assistant attorney general for the Civil Division, to study the legal options. Mr. Delery concluded Friday morning that the federal government could recognize the interim marriages as valid for the time being, the official said.The administration’s theory appears to be that even though Utah is not conferring any new benefits on same-sex couples who married, the state has not taken steps to indicate that it currently considers the marriages void, either. For example, Utah has said it will not try to invalidate new driver’s licenses that it already granted to gay or lesbian newlyweds who changed their last names, or spousal health benefits it already approved for same-sex spouses of state employees.And on Thursday, Utah’s attorney general, Sean D. Reyes, told county clerks to complete the administrative task of mailing marriage certificates for same-sex couples “whose marriages were solemnized” during the interim period, even though the state “cannot currently legally recognize marriages other than those between a man and a woman.”Mr. Reyes wrote that one purpose of following through on issuing the certificates is to allow such couples “to have proper documentation in states that recognize same-sex marriage,” suggesting that the state government believes that the certificates it issued to same-sex couples may be considered valid by other jurisdictions.Still, Utah will not grant any new benefits for couples who had not yet applied for them. That decision is likely to be challenged in court by couples seeking to change their names, legally adopt their children, get spousal health coverage, or file a joint income-tax return with the state. Jeffrey Gomez, for example, waited too long to change his name after marrying his partner last month.“We missed that little window,” he said Friday. “Everything has been so sudden and so topsy-turvy.”