EditorialJan. 28, 2014Every winter since 2009, President Obama has stood at the podium of the House and pleaded for the cooperation of Congress. For the last three State of the Union speeches, he has largely been ignored. That has left a growing trail of unfinished business: background checks for gun buyers, immigration reform, a higher minimum wage, tax fairness, universal preschool.This year was different. Mr. Obama’s speech on Tuesday night acknowledged the obvious: Congress has become a dead end for most of the big, muscular uses of government to redress income inequality and improve the economy for all, because of implacable Republican opposition. As a result, the remainder of Mr. Obama’s presidency will be largely devoted to a series of smaller actions that the White House can perform on its own.“America does not stand still, and neither will I,” he said. “So wherever and whenever I can take steps without legislation to expand opportunity for more American families, that’s what I’m going to do.”Taking the offensive by veering around Congress isn’t new for the administration, but it is more important than ever. As the president forcefully described, inequality has deepened and upward mobility has stalled. If Republicans in Congress stymie the public’s needs and desires, Mr. Obama should employ every tool in his box to bypass those barriers. The multistate tour that he plans in the coming days will give him a chance to be even more critical of Congress than he was in the House chamber.Most of the executive actions in the speech have the potential to make a difference, though their diminished scope demonstrates the lost potential caused by political intransigence. Raising the minimum wage to $10.10 an hour for federal contract workers might benefit only a few hundred-thousand people, but it increases the pressure on other businesses and, ultimately, Congress to raise the wage for everyone. (The $10.10 wage, however, provides an income too paltry to celebrate as a huge achievement.)The increased focus on federal job-training efforts and manufacturing institutes could help reduce unemployment by improving job skills to match the market, as will a $100 million competition to goad high schools into improving science, technology and math learning. A new retirement account could help people save money.But he left out an executive ban on discrimination by contractors against employees based on sexual orientation and gender identity. That would have made a strong statement about fairness in spending taxpayer money. He could also have prohibited contractors from retaliating against employees who disclose or seek salary information, which would help women know when they are being paid less.The only way to truly affect the economy on a mass scale, and to make a difference for tens of millions of people instead of a few hundred thousand, is to persuade Congress to go along on the major initiatives the president was forced to repeat in his remarks, such as extending jobless benefits, creating high-quality preschool for all 4-year-olds, and especially raising the minimum wage.“This will help families,” he said of the wage. “It will give businesses customers with more money to spend. It doesn’t involve any new bureaucratic program. So join the rest of the country. Say yes. Give America a raise.”One particularly promising request the president made of Congress was to expand the earned-income tax credit, which now benefits 15 million families a year, to workers without children. That would not only boost the incomes of many at the bottom of the ladder, but it would provide the incentive to work that many Republicans say they support. Pushing for a vote would reveal whether Republicans are so opposed to anything Mr. Obama wants that they would reject their own ideas. As important as executive orders can be, they should not replace showing that Republicans are voting against the public’s wishes.