The college football season remains in a state of flux, with the NCAA’s member institutions and conferences not exactly presenting a united front with regard to how to proceed amid the COVID-19 pandemic.As matters stand now, two major conferences, the Big Ten and the Pac-12, will not play this fall. Two others, the SEC and the ACC, are hoping to move ahead with the plans they announced last week to delay competition until late September and move ahead with games. The Big 12 followed Wednesday by confirming its plans.The rest of the Bowl Subdivision is equally fractured. The Mid-American Conference was the first to announce it would postpone fall competition in the hopes of staging games in the spring. The Mountain West Conference followed suit shortly thereafter. Conference USA had announced last week it would attempt to play, but then one of its members, Old Dominion, decided to suspend fall sports. As of this writing, the American and the Sun Belt intend to play.Here's the latest on where things stand on the state of play in the Bowl Subdivision:Texas and Iowa State fill out schedulesWhen the Big 12 announced its readjusted schedules Wednesday, both Texas and iowa State had empty spaces for their one non-conference opponents this season. Those spaces have been filled.The Longhorns will host Texas El-Paso on Sept. 12. The matchup was previously scheduled for Sept. 19. The Cyclones are set to play Louisiana-Lafayette on Sept. 12. This will be their fifth scheduled non-conference foe. They previously were scheduled to play South Dakota, Iowa, UNLV and Ball State. All of those fell through when the opponents' respective seasons were shut down or schedules changed.Big 12 says it has not heard from NebraskaBig 12 Conference commissioner Bob Bowlsby told reporters Wednesday that Nebraska has not reached out to talk about the possibility of re-joining the league.His direct quote: “They have not.”The Cornhuskers have been the most vocal critics of the Big Ten's decision to shut down fall sports and coach Scott Frost intimated the school could explore the option of playing football even after the conference said no.One possibility posited was to play schedule against its former league. Nebraska left the Big 12 in 2011, but it run in the Big Ten has produced the significant results in football as hoped for the school or conference. Ohio State calls situation for fall 'fluid'Mourning over the cancellation of the 2020 football season continues at Ohio State, coach Ryan Day said Wednesday, but he and his team are looking forward.“I gave myself last night to throw a pity party, but I woke up today and got back to work,” he said on a conference call with reporters. “Because that’s what life is, and that’s what sports are.”However, he raised the possibility of playing other Big Ten schools that did not want to cancel the season, such as Michigan, Nebraska and Penn State.“That’s a fluid situation,” Day said.Big 12 moving forward On a day when the Big Ten and Pac-12 shut down their fall football seasons, Big 12 presidents decided against stopping its seasons during a meeting Tuesday.League officials announced a revised football schedule Wednesday that includes one non-conference game on Sept. 12 and the start of conference play on Sept. 26. The Big 12 championship game is scheduled for Dec. 12, but could be moved back one week.Big Ten and Pac-12 will not play this fallHealth concerns about the coronavirus led the Big Ten and Pac-12 to cancel all fall sports, while leaving open the possibility of playing in the spring."The mental and physical health and welfare of our student-athletes has been at the center of every decision we have made regarding the ability to proceed forward,” Big Ten Commissioner Kevin Warren said in a statement.The dramatic announcements, which came less than two hours apart, creates major uncertainty of whether other leagues will move forward with playing a season or be forced to shut down with nearly half of the Bowl Subdivision conferences not playing.ACC medical adviser believes college football can be played in fallThe leading medical adviser for the Atlantic Coast Conference said the risks associated with the coronavirus can be overcome enough to play college football this fall.“We believe we can mitigate it down to a level that makes everyone safe,” Dr. Cameron Wolfe, a Duke infectious disease specialist who leads the ACC’s medical advisory team, told Sports Business Daily. “Can we safely have two teams meet on the field? I would say yes. Will it be tough? Yes. Will it be expensive and hard and lots of work? For sure. But I do believe you can sufficiently mitigate the risk of bringing COVID onto the football field or into the training room at a level that’s no different than living as a student on campus.”The ACC is scheduled to start games Sept. 10 with a plan to play 10 conference contests plus an additional non-conference matchup this season.Massachusetts decides against playing footballOne week after Connecticut said it would not play this fall, fellow independent Massachusetts announced the cancellation of its 2020 football season.The Minutemen were scheduled to face Albany, New Mexico and Akron. Those games have been lost with the respective conference shutdowns of the Colonial, Mountain West and MAC. They were also to play Connecticut and Auburn, with the latter being forced into a conference-only schedule."These times have presented us with extensive uncertainty, and we are disappointed for all the members of our fall sports programs who will not have the opportunity to compete this autumn," Massachusetts athletic director Ryan Bamford said in a statement. "We remain hopeful and fully intend to conduct a competitive schedule for our fall sports in the 2021 spring semester."