  Presumptive Democratic presidential candidate Joe Biden. | Carolyn Kaster/AP Photo A new pair of nationwide polls paint divergent pictures of the 2020 White House race — with former Vice President Joe Biden ahead by double digits in one survey and President Donald Trump significantly narrowing the presumptive Democratic nominee’s lead in the other. An ABC News/Washington Post poll released Monday morning reports that more than half of registered voters, 53 percent, prefer Biden, while 41 percent favor Trump.
That 12-point advantage, however, comes hours after a CNN poll published Sunday evening showed Biden’s lead tightening to only 4 points, as Trump surged to within striking distance of his likely general election opponent. Fifty percent of registered voters in that CNN survey preferred the Democratic ticket, Biden and presumptive vice presidential nominee Kamala Harris, and 46 percent supported the Republican incumbents, Trump and Vice President Mike Pence.
In the previous version of the CNN poll, released in June, Biden led Trump among registered voters by 14 points, 55-41.
Responding to Biden’s diminished edge over Trump, Democratic National Committee communications director Xochitl Hinojosa predicted Monday that observers will “continue to see the race tighten” in the remaining months before Election Day.
“We always believed that this would be a tough race, and I would frankly prefer to be in Joe Biden’s position than Donald Trump’s,” she told Fox News.
Even Trump campaign national press secretary Hogan Gidley, who has dismissed virtually all public polling of the race showing Trump trailing Biden, declined Monday to embrace the findings of the CNN survey.
“Listen, I don’t believe a lot of these polls, as I’ve always said,” he told Fox News. “A lot of the methodology used today is the same methodology they used in 2016. They were wrong then. They’re wrong now.”
Trump weighed in on the latest CNN poll in a tweet, appearing bewildered by the degree to which his standing improved over the past two months.
“What’s with @CNN POLLS increasing me by 10 points in a short period of time. Maybe they want to take over from @FoxNews!” he wrote.
Both the ABC News/Washington Post and CNN surveys were conducted last Wednesday through Saturday, amid Biden’s long-anticipated rollout of Harris as his running mate and as Trump amplified his assault against the U.S. Postal Service in the run-up to the November election.
The polls’ results arrived as Democrats prepare to mount the first night of programming for their largely virtual nominating convention this week in Milwaukee. Former first lady Michelle Obama, Vermont Sen. Bernie Sanders, New York Gov. Andrew Cuomo, former Ohio Gov. John Kasich and Michigan Gov. Gretchen Whitmer are among the top names set to speak Monday evening. The ABC News/Washington Post poll was conducted Aug. 12-15, surveying a random national sample of 1,001 adults. The margin of sampling error is plus or minus 3.5 percentage points.
The CNN poll also was conducted Aug. 12-15, surveying a random national sample of 1,108 adults, including 987 registered voters. The margin of sampling error for the full sample is plus or minus 3.7 percentage points, and it is 4 points among registered voters.  
