News AnalysisFeb. 12, 2014WASHINGTON — On Tuesday morning, after extended discussions of political fund-raising at the Capitol Hill Club, Speaker John A. Boehner stood to change the subject. He then told his House Republican troops that he would put to a vote a measure to raise the government’s borrowing limit, without preconditions.After what one member described as “stunned silence,” the speaker quipped, “I’m getting this monkey off your back, and you’re not going to even clap?”The applause he coaxed was grudging and modest, but most rank-and-file House Republicans understood that their leader was taking the arrows from their right flank that could have been headed for them. By quickly and unilaterally ending the back-and-forth over which amendments to try to attach to a debt ceiling increase, Mr. Boehner avoided another protracted public battle within the party and, more important, steered the government away from a potentially crippling default — without forcing most of his members to vote for a debt ceiling increase.“We’re not going to make ourselves the story,” he said, according to members in the room.For the fifth time since January 2013, Mr. Boehner on Tuesday effectively turned the floor of the House over to Democrats to secure must-pass legislation. But rather than weakening his control of the House, he may have strengthened it. He showed a relish for combat, both with the ranks of his right-wing antagonists in the House and with the increasingly angry Tea Party activists off Capitol Hill.By testing multiple options of policies that he could attach to a debt ceiling increase, he showed his own members that they would never be able to unify around any legislative package that could actually pass the House.“Contrary to some accounts, he went through every gyration of combinations and found what we all know to be true: You can’t get everybody on the same thing,” said Senator Richard M. Burr, Republican of North Carolina and a close friend of Mr. Boehner’s.And the deep divisions within his conference over tactics and targets will most likely insulate him from any significant repercussions. Representative Michele Bachmann, Republican of Minnesota and founder of the Tea Party Caucus in the House, said the ire that conservative voters once trained on the debt ceiling was now directed at the president’s health care law, the Internal Revenue Service and other issues.“It’s now competing with such a long list of horribles, it’s difficult to know which line to attack,” she said.In the wake of the vote, outside groups like the Tea Party Patriots, FreedomWorks and ForAmerica are calling for Mr. Boehner’s ouster, but his allies say no one should be surprised at how it unfolded.“John made it very plain early on that he was going to make sure the debt ceiling got raised and we pay our bills,” said Senator Saxby Chambliss, Republican of Georgia and one of the speaker’s oldest friends in Congress. “He’s been there for months.”The fate of Mr. Boehner’s speakership does not lie in the hands of his critics, aides and lawmakers say, but in his own. He masks whether the constant battling has worn him down. After a later news conference, he simply sang “Zip-a-Dee-Doo-Dah.”“That’ll be determined when he decides if he’s running for re-election, and I assume he will,” Mr. Burr said, with some uncharacteristic uncertainty.