    Obama highlighted a laundry list of spending measures intended to help California. It’s not often President Barack Obama gives a speech centered on agriculture, but the three years of scorching drought in California prompted him to fly there Friday to speak to weary farmers and ranchers and pledge millions of dollars worth of aid.  “As anyone in this state could tell you, California is living through some of its driest years in a century,” Obama said after touring a farm and a water facility.  “While drought in regions outside the west is expected to be less severe than in other years, California is our biggest economy, California is our biggest agricultural producer,” he said. “So what happens here matters to every working American, right down to the cost of food you put on your table.”  ( On POLITICO Magazine: Can anybody save California?)  Moments before Obama briefly painted a bleak picture of the state’s condition by describing the view from Air Force One as he was flying over the state, including the lack of snow on the mountains.  Half a million acres that would normally be producing fruits and vegetables will lie fallow this year because of the drought, according to Dave Kranz, a spokesman for the California Farm Bureau Federation.  The lion’s share of the aid the White House is offering California is in the form of disaster assistance for livestock owners - roughly $150 million that will go mainly to helping out ranchers who have struggled to feed their cattle and sheep on scorched pastures. The money comes from several emergency programs contained in the 2014 farm bill that Congress passed earlier this month.  Just days earlier USDA Secretary Tom Vilsack said he had no idea when the department would be able to get to implementing the livestock disaster programs because of complex implementation procedures. However, seemingly in conjunction with the president’s trip to California, the department is now promising to begin signups for the aid in April.  ( Also on POLITICO: Full agriculture policy coverage)  California producers won’t be the only ones to benefit from the programs, which are retroactive until October 2011 when similar assistance under the previous 2008 farm bill expired. Overall, the USDA expects to spend roughly $1 billion through the Livestock Indemnity Program, the Livestock Forage and Disaster Program and others to help out ranchers that suffered in the Dakotas and Nebraska during a blizzard last year as well as the drought that stretched across the country in 2012.  “This disaster program may well prevent widespread farm and ranch failures that would otherwise occur due to the October blizzard in the Northern Plains that has reportedly killed over 40,000 head of livestock and from the ongoing California drought that is causing ranchers to liquidate their cattle herds due to a severe shortage of feed,” said Bill Bullard, CEO of the rancher group R-CALF USA.  Obama highlighted a laundry list of other spending measures intended to help California in advance of his speech, including: $5 million to invest in projects that will help farmers conserve water on their scorched fields; $5 million for watershed improvements like stabilizing stream banks; $3 million in grants to improve drinking water sources for rural communities; and $60 million to restock California food banks.  ( PHOTOS: 7 famous food moments)  “The food bank resources is money from The Emergency Food Assistance Program, TEFAP, that gives food banks the capacity to go out and purchase whatever they believe is most appropriate, most necessary, to help families based on what demand at the food bank is,” USDA Secretary Tom Vilsack explained to reporters Thursday night in advance of the president’s trip.  But not all Californians are pleased with Obama’s approach to helping the state.  “During his visit to Fresno this morning, President Obama essentially offered to throw money at our drought. Unfortunately, our drought has been repeatedly exacerbated by burdensome state and federal regulations,” said Rep. Jeff Denham (R-Calif.), who represents grape, almond, peach and other producers in his central California district, in a letter to his constituents Friday. Denham argued that far more good could be done if the Senate would instead pass the drought-relief bill approved by the House on Feb. 5, but that seems unlikely. The White House has come out against that bill, which focuses on long-term water reliability issues by addressing environmental and other regulations. And a much different bill - one that the White House is supportive of, is making its way through the Senate.  Accompanying Obama were Democratic California Senators Dianne Feinstein and Barbara Boxer - two authors of the Senate bill, the California Emergency Drought Relief Act of 2014, which would provide $300 million for projects to bring water to dried-out farms.  “And I hope that Congress considers the legislation that they’ve crafted soon, works through some of the concerns that have been expressed,” Obama said about the bill. “Let’s make sure we are getting some short-term relief and also long-term certainty for those who are going to be harmed by this drought.”  As expected, Obama promised on Friday to urge Congress to set aside $1 billion in new funding for a so-called Climate Resilience Fund that would help communities withstand worsening storms, droughts and the other effects of a warming planet. However, that’s expected to be a formidable task, given the House GOP’s aggressive push back against the president’s climate agenda.  Shortly before the speech in Los Banos, House Science Chairman Lamar Smith (R-Texas) attacked the plan, saying there are better ways to address the drought in California and other Western states.  “In order to push his costly climate change agenda, the president is once again linking extreme weather to climate change — with no scientific support,” said Smith, who has long questioned the science used to justify climate change. “There are better ways to help Americans who have been impacted by drought.”  He pointed to a bill the House passed this week regarding a drought monitoring program.  “I look forward to a day when the weather is no longer used to gain political leverage,” Smith said.  But Obama dedicated much of his speech Friday on the need to address climate change.  “We have to be clear, a changing climate means that weather-related disasters - droughts, wildfires, storms, floods - are potentially costlier and they’re going to be harsher,” Obama said. “Water politics in California have always been complicated, but scientific evidence shows that the changing climate is going to make them more intense.”  Most California farmers and ranchers, for now at least, are focused on the short term goal of keeping their crops and animals alive.  “With the majority of cattle country suffering from the effects of drought over the past three years, we continue to pray for rain to help rebuild our herds nationwide,” said Chase Adams, a spokesman for the National Cattlemen’s Beef Association.  Cherie Watte Angulo, executive director of the California Aspargus Commission, said her growers took a hit last year from the drought and are poised to do so again this year if they don’t get more rain soon. Harvest traditionally starts in March, but it’ll be earlier this year because of the unseasonably warm weather.  “Having the president here can only help illustrate how serious the situation is to the rest of the nation,” she said.  And the president recognized that there’s only so much the government can do.  “This is going to be a very challenging situation for some time to come,” he told reporters Friday, according to pool reports from the event.  Obama stressed the need to think ahead.  “We can’t think of this simply as a zero sum gain,” he said. “It can’t just be a matter of there is going to be less and less water, so I am going to grab more and more of a shrinking share of water. Instead what we have to do is all come together and figure out how we are all going to make sure that agricultural needs, urban needs, industrial needs, environmental and conservation concerns are all addressed.” 
