Feb. 24, 2014WASHINGTON — No member of the House has served as long as Representative John D. Dingell, Democrat of Michigan. So it resonated when Mr. Dingell announced on Monday that he would not seek re-election to a seat he has held since the Eisenhower administration in part because the institution he once revered had become “obnoxious,” riven by acrimony and marked by lack of productivity.“There is going to be a lot of blaming and finger-pointing back and forth, but all of us are at fault,” Mr. Dingell said in remarks to a chamber of commerce in Michigan, adding: “The enormous expense of money made by people in the course of the campaign has not been well spent in the interest of the public, of the Congress of the country.”Mr. Dingell, the longest-serving member of Congress in history and a legislative power broker and deal maker on health and energy policy for decades, was the first of more than two dozen mainly veteran lawmakers exiting the House and Senate to be so explicit in blaming partisan tensions and a dearth of accomplishment for his departure.In an interview with The Detroit News, Mr. Dingell, 87, was scathing. “I find serving in the House to be obnoxious,” he said, noting a hostile climate both inside and outside Congress.While others have shied from so directly criticizing the state of politics in announcing their retirements, such sentiments have been a clear undercurrent as other accomplished legislators such as Representatives Henry A. Waxman and George Miller, both California Democrats elected in the aftermath of the Watergate scandal in 1974, are leaving as well.On the Republican side, two current committee chairmen, Howard (Buck) McKeon of California and Doc Hastings of Washington, are quitting along with longtime Representative Tom Latham of Iowa, who chairs an Appropriations subcommittee, once one of the most sought-after positions in Congress.ImageCredit...Stephen Crowley/The New York TimesOther House and Senate veterans are leaving as well, taking hundreds of years of experience out the ornate doors.“It’s a different place than it was in the past,” acknowledged Representative Fred Upton, the Michigan Republican who now chairs the Energy and Commerce Committee, which Mr. Dingell presided over for years as an intimidating watchdog of government operations. “And we all sort of lament some of those days, for sure, but it comes with the territory. It just does. The issues are very complex, and I don’t think the founding fathers ever thought we’d be representing 700,000-plus people, as we do in Michigan.”Others noted that while the deterioration of personal and partisan relationships in Congress was no doubt a contributing factor, many of the retiring lawmakers are well advanced in years, have health concerns and no longer want to maintain the demanding pace of the current 24-hour political world.In addition, the retirements by top Democrats represent a recognition that their party is unlikely to recapture the majority in November, making them reluctant to undertake a costly and exhausting campaign to spend yet another two years in the minority with little influence. Over the course of a tenure beginning in 1955, when he won a special election to succeed his late father, Mr. Dingell will have been in the minority for just 16 of his 59 years of service.Still, some expressed concern that lawmakers schooled in the art of compromise and deal cutting are departing and those following do not have the same expertise or experience.“The truly distressing thing about these folks leaving is that they’re the ones who know how to negotiate, know how to legislate, know how to get things done,” said David Goldston, a Republican congressional aide for more than 20 years who is now director of government affairs at the Natural Resources Defense Council. “Congress is increasingly left with people who not only don’t know how to do those things; they don’t know that they can be done.”Mr. Dingell’s decision is not expected to change the partisan breakdown of the House as the district is considered to be safely Democratic. ImageCredit...Cassi Alexandra for The New York TimesSeveral names quickly surfaced as potential candidates to succeed him. There has been persistent suggestion that his wife, Deborah, one half of a longstanding Washington power couple, would step forward to run for his seat when he retires, and Mr. Dingell said that if she were to run, he would vote for her. He thanked her in his remarks Monday at the Southern Wayne County Regional Chamber of Commerce, saying, “She has been tireless, devoted, and worked just as hard — if not harder — for this district throughout the years.”Rebekah Warren, a Michigan state senator whose district includes Ann Arbor and Ypsilanti, is considered an up-and-coming liberal voice in the state, and has also been mentioned as a possible candidate for the seat.Praising Mr. Dingell, President Obama released a statement calling him “one of the most influential legislators of all time” and noted his “tireless fight to guarantee quality, affordable health care for every American.”Mr. Dingell often cited the support of his father, John, for comprehensive national health care as his own inspiration, and he presided over the House debate on the new health care law. But he also clashed with his own party, particularly when as an advocate for the automobile industry in Detroit he resisted tightening auto fuel economy standards. And he was a leading Democratic voice for gun rights and often served as a conduit between the more liberal House Democratic leadership and more conservative Democrats, known as Blue Dogs.After Mr. Obama’s election in 2008, Mr. Waxman challenged and defeated Mr. Dingell for the chairmanship of the Energy and Commerce Committee, a devastating loss for Mr. Dingell. He remained active legislatively, particularly on health issues, though the imposing stature and style that he used to great effect against quavering hearing witnesses was notably diminished by age and deteriorating health.In recent years, Mr. Dingell often weighed whether to run again, and this year was no exception. Many expected him to remain as long as he could, but he determined his time was up, though he used the occasion to issue a plea for more cooperation in Congress.“Congress means coming together, the great coming together of the American people,” he said. “Compromise is an honorable word.”