    Eight states, including Michigan, now ban affirmative action. The Supreme Court delivered another setback to affirmative action Tuesday, easing the way for states to bar public colleges from considering race in admissions and to prohibit officials from taking race into account in hiring and contracting.  The decision upheld a constitutional amendment in Michigan voters approved in 2006, banning preferential treatment based on race, gender, ethnicity or national origin.  The outcome of the case was not a shock, but the lopsided, 6-2 vote signaled the court’s continuing rightward shift on issues of race.  ( WATCH: Driving the Day)  Eight states now have bans on affirmative action. California lawmakers briefly considered a measure that would have turned back its ban on using affirmative action in public university admissions, but the proposal was dropped.  The court’s ruling is likely to embolden opponents of racial preferences, who have already outlined plans to put Michigan-style constitutional amendments on the ballot in states including Ohio, Missouri and Utah.  “The Supreme Court has made it clear that there’s no constitutional problem with banning preferential treatment… and that federal, state and local governments who want to do that can do so — and I hope that they will,” said Roger Clegg, president and general counsel of the Center for Equal Opportunity.  ( Also on POLITICO: Abortion at heart of Ohio speech case)  “The most important takeaway from this is that more states should do what Michigan has done,” Clegg added.  Quite the contrary, said said affirmative action proponent Michael Olivas, director of the Institute for Higher Education Law and Governance at University of Houston. It’s a huge concern that states are making decisions about higher education via ballot measures, which can overturn nuanced, longstanding public policy in an instant.  “Conducting important educational business via ballot measure is a very bad development, and I say it’s bad even if my issue would win,” Olivas said.  ( PHOTOS: 21 landmark SCOTUS rulings)  While the court’s members leaned heavily in favor of allowing the Michigan amendment to take effect, the six justices who voted in the majority did not agree entirely on why.  Justice Anthony Kennedy, who has come to be the court’s key voice on race-related issues, announced the court’s ruling in the Supreme Court chamber.  “The respondents in this case insist that a difficult question of public policy must be taken from the reach of the voters, and thus removed from the realm of public discussion, dialogue, and debate in an election campaign,” Kennedy wrote in an opinion, joined by Chief Justice John Roberts and Justice Samuel Alito.” Quite in addition to the serious First Amendment implications of that position with respect to any particular election, it is inconsistent with the underlying premises of a responsible, functioning democracy … It is demeaning to the democratic process to presume that the voters are not capable of deciding an issue of this sensitivity on decent and rational grounds.”  ( PHOTOS: Who’s who on the Supreme Court)  Kennedy said the Michigan referendum was not parallel to a pair of earlier cases where the court barred states from restructuring their political system in order to defeat efforts to aid minorities by requiring public school busing or prohibiting discrimination in housing. also He said the courts need to resist trying to decide which policies would benefit minorities and which would harm them.  “This Court has rejected the assumption that ‘members of the same racial group—regardless of their age, education, economic status, or the community in which they live—think alike, share the same political interests, and will prefer the same candidates at the polls,’” Kennedy wrote in “In a society in which those [racial] lines are becoming more blurred, the attempt to define race-based categories also raises serious questions of its own.”  Justice Sonia Sotomayor read much of her dissent from the bench, speaking more passionately and at greater length than Kennedy.  “The stark reality is that race still matters,” Sotomayor said, summarizing a dissenting opinion joined only by Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg. “The way to stop discrimination on the basis of race is to speak openly and candidly on the subject of race, and to apply the Constitution with eyes open to the unfortunate effects of centuries of racial discrimination. As members of the judiciary tasked with intervening to carry out the guarantee of equal protection, we ought not sit back and wish away, rather than confront, the racial inequality that exists in our society.”  Sotomayor said the court’s majority unwisely assumed that the outcome of a voter-passed referendum was unlikely to be influenced by racism. “My colleagues misunderstand the nature of the injustice worked by” the Michigan amendment, she said.  Justices Antonin Scalia and Clarence Thomas wrote separately, saying they would uphold the Michigan affirmative action ban and explicitly strike down the court’s previous decisions barring race-related restructuring of the political system. Follow @politico In a somewhat surprising move, Justice Stephen Breyer voted to uphold the Michigan measure, becoming the only Democratic appointee on the court to do so. He wrote his own opinion explaining why the issue should not be taken out of the hands of Michigan voters.  Justice Elena Kagan recused herself from the case. It’s unknown precisely why she stepped aside, but she may have had dealings with the case while serving as solicitor general in the Obama administration or earlier in her career, as dean of Harvard Law School.  The case, Schuette v. Coalition to Defend Affirmative Action, grew out of a 2006 ballot measure that enshrined a ban on affirmative action in the Michigan state constitution. Voters backed the amendment, known as the Michigan Civil Rights Initiative or Proposal 2, by 58 percent to 42 percent.  Opponents argued that the ban imposed an unfair and unreasonable burden on minorities. When it came to college admissions, for instance, other interest groups — rural students, say, or low-income students — could petition public universities to grant them special consideration. But women, African-Americans and others covered by the ban could not ask for similar treatment without first amending the state constitution.  Supporters, led by Michigan Attorney General Bill Schuette, argued that banning discrimination by race could not possibly be considered a discriminatory act.  “In 2006, the citizens of Michigan enshrined the basic concept of equality and fairness into our Constitution. It is fundamentally wrong to treat people differently based on the color of their skin,” Schuette said. “The U.S. Supreme Court heard the voices of equality and the voices of the people.”  The woman behind the ballot measure validated by the Supreme Court said the ruling was “a great decision for Michigan voters and for the issue of equality.”  Jennifer Gratz sees the Schuette decision as a sign that affirmative action will soon be on its way out in a broader swath of the country.  “It says that these policies are living on borrowed time,” Gratz said. “It’s pretty clear to me what direction the country has moved in, which is fair and equal government.”  A parade of education and civil rights organizations, including the National Education Association, the American Council on Education and the National School Boards Association — as well as chancellors of the University of California system — have publicly opposed the affirmative action ban. The Obama administration also urged that the ban be overturned.  In November 2012, the Sixth Circuit Court of Appeals ruled 8-7 that Michigan’s amendment was unconstitutional because it violated the equal protection clause of the U.S. Constitution.  “Today’s decision turns back our nation’s commitment to racial equality and equal treatment under the law by sanctioning separate and unequal political processes that put undue burdens on students,” NEA President Dennis Van Roekel said. “The Supreme Court has made it harder to advocate and, ultimately, achieve equal educational opportunity.”  Kennedy stressed Tuesday that the court was not taking on the merits of affirmative action in the Michigan case.  Rather, the arguments revolved around a longstanding legal principle that the court first articulated in 1969, when it overturned a change to the city charter in Akron, Ohio, that required all measures relating to racial or religious discrimination be put to a referendum. The court found the change unconstitutional because it placed a special and unfair burden on racial and religious minorities seeking to assert their interests in the political process. The justices reaffirmed that principle in 1982, throwing out a ban on the use of busing to ease racial imbalances in Washington state public schools.  At oral arguments in the Schuette case last October, Kennedy suggested that the same principle — and legal precedent — clearly applied in the Michigan case as well.  The court’s last major ruling on affirmative action came in 2003. In a pair of decisions, the justices found that a public university could not give minority applicants an automatic edge in admissions. However, colleges could consider race as a factor in admissions — as long as those affirmative action programs were narrowly tailored and diversity goals could not be met by other means.  The justices had a chance to make another big statement on affirmative action last June, in Fisher v. University of Texas. Instead, the justices punted, voting 7-1 to return the case to the lower courts for a closer examination of whether a minority preference program at the University of Texas was narrowly tailored and whether there were other ways to promote diversity.  Kennedy wrote the court’s decision in the Texas case and still appears to be the justice most likely to shape the future of affirmative action programs.  After Fisher was sent back to the lower court, the U.S. Departments of Education and Justice issued guidance affirming past advice for higher education: If other approaches besides considering race are ineffective at promoting diversity, then colleges may factor in students’ race.  The American Council on Education, which represents over 1,800 U.S. colleges and universities, said it was “heartened to see that it did not take away from the court’s [ Fisher] decision of last year.”  “As long as the Fisher case and its predecessor stand,” ACE General Counsel Ada Meloy said, “we feel that institutions should be able to come to their own decisions as to the appropriateness of continuing or guarding or stopping race-sensitive admissions policies.” 
