    The guidelines painstakingly detail what schools can and cannot ask for to enroll children. The Obama administration delivered an unequivocally clear message — again — on Thursday: All children have a right to enroll in public schools regardless of their citizenship or immigration status.  Three years after clarifying to schools that they cannot turn away children, the Education and Justice Departments issued another set of guidance documents that provide in painstaking detail what schools can and cannot ask for when families want to enroll their children. The agencies also provided examples of acceptable enrollment policies.  For example, schools can violate federal law by requiring Social Security numbers or birth certificates when a student wants to enroll. Schools can instead ask for proof of residency in a school district, which a family can do with an electric bill or copy of a lease.  In a Dear Colleague letter, the agencies say they’ve recently “become aware of student enrollment practices that may chill or discourage the participation, or lead to the exclusion, of students based on their or their parents’ or guardians’ actual or perceived citizenship or immigration status.”  ( Also on POLITICO: Why Obama may never get bill on immigration)  The Department of Homeland Security estimates that there are 1.1 million undocumented children under age 18 living in the U.S.  On a call with reporters, Education Secretary Arne Duncan said that the department’s Office for Civil Rights has received 17 complaints related to school enrollment policies since its 2011 guidance on the issue. The complaints came from all over the country, Assistant Secretary for Civil Rights Catherine Lhamon said: Colorado, D.C., Michigan, Ohio, Louisiana, New Mexico and North Carolina, among others.  Those are in addition to an undisclosed number of complaints filed with the Justice Department. DOJ’s Acting Assistant Attorney General for Civil Rights Jocelyn Samuels said her agency has also received complaints from all over the country. Samuels said state education agencies are cooperating with the federal government. In one case, DOJ evaluated the enrollment policies of more than 200 school districts in Georgia and helped schools fix problems. And the Education Department has provided technical assistance to school districts for the last several years.  ( DRIVING THE DAY: Immigration's road to nowhere?)  “Public school districts have an obligation to enroll students regardless of immigration status and without discrimination on the basis of race, color or national origin,” Attorney General Eric Holder said in a statement. “The Justice Department will do everything it can to make sure schools meet this obligation. We will vigilantly enforce the law to ensure the schoolhouse door remains open to all.”  These state and district obligations are the result of the 1982 Supreme Court decision Plyler v. Doe, which struck down a Texas law that denied education funding for undocumented children. It also struck down the Tyler, Texas, school district’s attempt to charge undocumented families tuition to make up for the lost state funding.  As immigration reform stalls in Congress, states including Alabama and Arizona have passed their own laws to address the issue. Parts of the Alabama law dealing with school admissions have been blocked by courts, and much of Arizona’s law was nullified, too. State policies can’t trump the 32-year-old Supreme Court ruling, but the dueling requirements have clouded the picture for schools.  Jerri Katzerman, deputy legal director for the Southern Poverty Law Center, is less charitable.  “Some of it is ignorance, both feigned and acquired,” Katzerman said. “Often schools will say, ‘We didn’t deny any child.’ But we’ll ask, ‘How many children didn’t go through the process because of fear?’ It doesn’t create an inclusive, welcoming environment.” Lhamon said that even after the court halted the provision of the Alabama law requiring schools to determine immigration status, the agencies continued to hear complaints. She said officials discovered that some fearful parents were even withdrawing their children from school.  In Alabama in 2013, a study conducted by the SPLC found that out of a sample of 124 enrollment forms representing 81 school districts, not a single one was complying with federal law regarding requests for Social Security numbers, Katzerman said.  The law doesn’t bar schools from asking for Social Security numbers in general. But if they do, they must detail how they plan to use the information and stipulate that the information is voluntary, will be kept confidential and will never keep a student from enrolling.  In one case, the SPLC found that a magnet school program in Mobile County, Alabama, asked for Social Security numbers and used an asterisk to indicate that it was required information. The enrollment form also asked for the Social Security numbers of an applicant’s siblings.  Asking for information about a students’ citizenship or immigration status is exclusionary and can trigger fear in immigrant families looking to enroll their children in public schools, Katzerman said.  In another recent incident, the American Civil Liberties Union of New Jersey sent a warning to a New Jersey school district that was requiring “overly restrictive forms of identification” for children looking to enroll in public school.  Some schools have been less than responsive when told they’re out of compliance, Katzerman said.  “One school district said to us, ‘OK, we understand now, but we already printed all of our forms, and it would be too expensive to go back and reprint them,’” she said.  The findings led Alabama state Superintendent Thomas Bice to issue a memorandum to local education leaders outlining their legal responsibilities. But a year later, Katzerman said, some schools are still making the same mistakes.  The SPLC has even heard from families who say schools are asking for Social Security numbers so their children can participate in extracurricular activities, she said. The organization is now updating its study after hearing such anecdotes.  “We want to be sure every school leader understands the legal requirements under the Constitution and federal laws, and it is our hope that this update will address some of the misperceptions out there,” Duncan said in a statement. “The message here is clear: Let all children who live in your district enroll in your public schools.”  Connecticut Rep. Rosa DeLauro also lauded the guidance.  “As Justice Earl Warren eloquently wrote in his opinion for Brown v. Board of Education, ‘it is doubtful that any child may reasonably be expected to succeed in life if he [or she] is denied the opportunity of an education,’” the Connecticut Democrat said. “Those words are as true today as they were in 1954. Public schools have an obligation to educate all children so they can one day grow up to be successful, active members of society.”  The guidance also protects homeless children, allowing them to enroll in school even when their families can’t provide proof of residency. And Katzerman said it’s encouraging that the guidance urges school districts to foster inclusive environments by educating families about their rights and reassuring them that their children are welcome in school.  The Education and Justice Departments also stress that schools have to “meaningfully communicate material information about enrollment” for families that aren’t proficient in English. Failing to provide interpreters or translated materials is often a problem, Katzerman said. 
