    Clinton testified to the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, including Corker and Menendez. | REUTERS Secretary of State Hillary Clinton engaged in six hours of sometimes aggressive questioning from both sides of Capitol Hill on Wednesday over the deaths of four Americans in the attack on U.S. diplomatic outposts in Benghazi, Libya.  Clinton — whose testimony was delayed for more than a month because of health reasons — stood her ground in a tenser hearing before the Senate Foreign Relations Committee in the morning and wasn’t rattled in an afternoon outing before the GOP-controlled House Foreign Affairs Committee, where boosterism ran high over a possible 2016 presidential bid.  ( PHOTOS: Clinton’s best Benghazi hearing lines)  On both sides of the Capitol, she accepted personal blame for the security lapses that led to the attack on the U.S. Consulate in Benghazi, resulting in the death of U.S. Ambassador Chris Stevens, among others.  “As I have said many times since Sept. 11, I take responsibility. Nobody is more committed to getting this right. I am determined to leave the State Department and our country safer, stronger and more secure,” Clinton said.  Clinton was visibly emotional during the Senate hearing, especially when she talked about the deaths of Stevens, Foreign Service information officer Sean Smith, and two members of Embassy security personnel, Glen Doherty and Tyrone Woods.  “For me, this is not just a matter of policy … it’s personal,” she said. “I stood next to President [Barack] Obama as the Marines carried those flag-draped caskets off the plane at Andrews. I put my arms around the mothers and fathers, sisters and brothers, sons and daughters.”  ( PHOTOS: Clinton’s many expressions at Benghazi hearing)  This is likely Clinton’s last high-profile testimony as secretary before a congressional committee, though she will appear on the Hill Thursday to introduce Sen. John Kerry (D-Mass.), who has been nominated to succeed her at Foggy Bottom.  One of the tensest exchanges came before the Senate committee under questioning by Sen. Ron Johnson (R-Wis.), who asked why evacuees from Benghazi were not immediately questioned about the cause of the attack.  “A very simple phone call to these individuals would have ascertained very quickly there was no protest,” he said, charging Americans were misled by administration talking points.  (PHOTOS: 10 slams on Obama and Benghazi)  “With all due respect, the fact is we had four dead Americans,” Clinton said, with her voice rising. “Was it because of a protest or was it because a guy goes out for a walk one night and decided to go kill some Americans? What difference, at this point, does it make? It is our job to figure out what happened and do everything we can to prevent it from ever happening again, Senator.”  “I saw firsthand what Ambassador Thomas Pickering and former Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff Adm. Mike Mullen called ‘timely’ and ‘exceptional’ coordination. No delays in decision-making,” she said early in her testimony. “No denials of support from Washington or from the military. And I want to echo the Review Board’s praise for the valor and courage of our people on the ground — especially the security professionals in Benghazi and Tripoli. The board said our response saved American lives in real time — and it did.” Sen. John McCain (R-Ariz.) also took Clinton to task, calling many of Clinton’s answers before the Senate panel “unsatisfactory.” Sen. Rand Paul (R-Ky.) said he would have fired Clinton over Benghazi had he been president.  “The American people deserve to know answers, and they certainly don’t deserve false answers. The answers given to the American people on Sept. 15, by the ambassador to the United Nations were false,” McCain said, referring to televised statements by the U.S. Ambassador to the United Nations Susan Rice. “In fact, they were contradicted by the classified information, which was kept out of the [Rice’s] report.”  McCain jabbed: “Why do we care? Because if the classified information had been included, it gives an entirely different version of events. … If you want to tell the American people [information] and tell them what happened, then you ought to have your facts straight.”  “I understand your very, very strong feelings,” Clinton responded. “You knew Chris. … You were one of the staunchest supporters of the effort to dislodge [Muammar Qadhafi] and try to give the Libyan people a chance. And we just have a disagreement. We have a disagreement about what happened, and when it happened and with respect to explaining the sequence of events.”  At the hearing, Republicans repeatedly pressed the former New York senator on the administration’s official description of the Benghazi attack in the days following the tragedy, new threats in Northern Africa and funding for embassy security.  Paul, who has considered a run for president, said he was glad Clinton was “accepting responsibility.” He added, “I think ultimately, with your leaving, you accept the culpability of one of the worst tragedies since Sept. 11.”  “Had I been president at the time, … I would have relieved you of your post,” he said. “I think it’s inexcusable.”  Sen. Jim Risch (R-Idaho) questioned Clinton’s role in coming up with talking points used by Rice, and why administration officials initially characterized the assault as spontaneous rather than deliberate.  Clinton said she was not involved in the selection of Rice to speak on the Sunday talk shows. She added that it was clear to her, as she said the day after the attack, that “heavily armed militants assaulted our compound.”  “I personally was not focused on talking points. I was focused on keeping our people safe,” she said.  The tone was decidedly different on Wednesday afternoon when Clinton was welcomed to the House side and Democrats embraced the secretary and former first lady as a possible 2016 presidential contender.  Rep. Gregory Meeks (D-N.Y.) thanked Clinton for her “extraordinary daughter,” noting Chelsea Clinton’s visit to the far Rockaways to pitch in for Sandy relief. And American Samoa Delegate Eni Faleomavaega used his time to tip his hat to Clinton, should she choose to run for president in 2016.  “I’m looking forward to 2016 and wishing you much success,” he said. At the start of questioning, Chairman Rep. Ed Royce (R-Calif.) said there were a number of “disturbing questions” surrounding the Benghazi attack, and questioned the State Department’s response.  “The dots here were connected ahead of time. The State Department saw this risk coming, and the State Department didn’t act,” Royce said.  Clinton was also questioned by Rep. Joe Wilson (R-S.C.) about Rice’s appearance on the Sunday talk shows. Wilson said that Clinton, not Rice, should have gone on air.  “Well, I have to confess here in public, going on the Sunday shows is not my favorite thing to do. There are other things that I prefer to do on Sunday morning,” Clinton replied. “I haven’t been on a Sunday show in way over a year. It just isn’t something that I normally jump to do. I did feel strongly that we have a lot that we had to manage, that I had to respond to and that that should be the priority.”  Wilson shot back that “part of the priority is telling correct information, and you could have done that.”  Rep. Juan Vargas (D-Calif.) said he didn’t think his wife and teenage daughter would let him return home if he didn’t sing Clinton’s praises.  “You’re a hero to many, especially women,” the freshman said. “You seem to bring out those deep aspirations that they have.”  Arkansas Republican Rep. Tom Cottonsaid he wished that Hillary would have won the 2008 Democratic primary. “I did pretty well in Arkansas,” Clinton quipped.  There were a few tough exchanges during the House hearing, most pointedly by Rep. Jeff Duncan.  The South Carolina Republican — who earlier this year led nearly 100 House members in signing a letter opposing Rice’s possible nomination as secretary of state — charged the secretary with “national security malpractice” and suggested that she should have resigned in the wake of the attack.  “Madam Secretary, you let the Consulate become a death trap, and that’s national security malpractice,” he said. “You said you’d take responsibility. What does responsibility mean Madam Secretary? You’re still in your job, and there are four people at the State Department that are still in their jobs.”  “I heard an answer about firing or removing personnel, I get that, but this was gross negligence. At what point of time can our administration and can our government fire someone whose gross negligence left four Americans dead in Benghazi? What does the word responsibility mean to you, Madam Secretary?”  Clinton retorted, saying she’s been “pretty clear” and that the Accountability Review Board’s role is to review a situation absent politics and emotion and “try to get at the truth.”  “I think this distinguished panel did just that,” Clinton said.  Before the Senate, Clinton said that as protests erupted globally she immediately ordered a review of security procedures “with particular scrutiny for high-threat posts.” She said she stood with Obama the next morning when he referred to Benghazi as an “act of terror.”  Clinton addressed the recommendations of the Accountability Review Board and said she’s “putting into action” all of them. She said she created the new deputy assistant secretary for high threats in response to the attack, calling the position “something that should have been done a long time ago.” 
