    
It's a near certainty the House’s new select committee will call on the secretary. Secretary of State John Kerry will not appear next month before the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee.  Chairman Darrell Issa (R-Calif.) said Friday he released Kerry from a subpoena to testify on June 12 about the Benghazi terrorist attacks — making it a near certainty that the House’s new select committee on Benghazi will call on the secretary for questioning.  “Seeing Secretary Kerry and others, who have worked to obstruct critical oversight of Congress’ investigations into Benghazi, attempt to use the upcoming June 12 hearing as a shield against the Select Committee tells me it’s time to reassess,” Issa said in a statement.  ( Also on POLITICO: Hillary Clinton's Benghazi chapter)  The California Republican has been engaged in a battle with the State Department over Kerry’s testimony. Issa initially subpoenaed the former Massachusetts senator to testify in May but was forced to issue a second appeal as Kerry planned to be in Mexico at the time.  Issa issued the second subpoena even though the House had already established the select committee. This gave ground to critics of the Republicans’ effort that Kerry should not be forced to appear before both the Oversight and select committees.  By rescinding the request, Issa is opening a path for the select committee to call on Kerry to testify. That committee, chaired by Republican Rep. Trey Gowdy of South Carolina, will most likely subpoena or request interviews with a number of high-level White House officials and former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton.  “As much as we fought to learn what we could, bring critical witnesses forward, and shame the administration into disclosing more than it originally intended, I expect the Select Committee’s unified jurisdiction will afford it better access to the complete picture than any of its investigative predecessors,” Issa said.  The Oversight Committee was one of the last remaining panels actively investigating the Benghazi attacks after the House Armed Services, Foreign Affairs and Intelligence committees issued a report on their respective probes.  Issa faced criticism from Republicans over the timing of the Kerry subpoena. On Friday, Republican Deputy Whip Rep. Peter Roskam (Ill.) said it was a “procedural snafu.”  “I think the way I would characterize it is that the Benghazi Select Committee is going to be dealing exclusively with these jurisdictional questions in the House. And I think that that was a — more of a procedural snafu than anything else,” the Illinoisan said on “Political Capital with Al Hunt.” 
