Debate That DividesCredit...Chi BirminghamJune 12, 2014It is common for Americans to lament the polarization and dysfunction of Washington, but Congress might be doing a better job of representing the public than voters care to admit.According to a new study from Pew Research, Republicans and Democrats in Congress aren’t the only partisans who deeply distrust people from the other side of the aisle. Liberals and conservatives prefer to associate with and live near their fellow partisans. They would be unhappy if their children married someone with a different political viewpoint. The result isn’t just polarized politics, but a divided society where liberals and conservatives increasingly keep apart.Although the ideological difference between primary and general election voters in each party is modest, the Pew study found that the most ideological voters were the most energized and the likeliest to participate in primaries, a tendency on display in the defeat of Eric Cantor in the Virginia Republican primary on Tuesday.The study is not the first to suggest that American politics are sorting along ideological lines. But it is based on a survey of 10,000 Americans, roughly 10 times the size of the average political poll. Respondents were asked novel questions about lifestyle, not just policy preferences.Partisanship and ideology didn’t neatly line up for much of the 20th century, but the voters of both parties have now become more ideologically homogeneous than ever before. Among politically engaged voters (those who almost always vote), the sorting of liberals and conservatives into the two parties is complete: 99 percent of politically engaged Republicans are more conservative than the median Democrat, while 98 percent of engaged Democrats are more liberal than the median Republican. That’s up from 88 and 84 percent, respectively, in 2004.Because the two parties have now relitigated the same cultural and economic issues for several elections in a row, voters have learned what each party stands for and have found their way into the appropriate camps, thus ending the political upheaval that followed the collapse of the post-Civil War party system, when Republicans lost their hold on the North and then Democrats lost their grip on the South.The result is an electorate that’s more likely to demand ideologically consistent candidates — like the Virginia voters who threw out Mr. Cantor — and partisans who are less likely to support the other party in national elections. It makes it harder to forge bipartisan legislation that commands the broad support necessary to overcome a filibuster or pass both halves of Congress. If the Democrats have an advantage in national elections, it will be harder for the G.O.P. to change its policies, and there might be fewer voters open to persuasion.The rise in the number of self-identified independents has done little to stem the trend toward ideological and partisan polarization. Most independents lean toward a political party and exhibit viewpoints that are very similar to those of self-identified partisans, even on questions like ideological consistency.What is more clearly illuminated here is the extent to which partisan and ideological animosity is dividing American society.Twenty-seven percent of Democrats and 36 percent of Republicans see the other party as a threat to the nation’s well-being. Consistent liberals and consistent conservatives, those who hold nearly uniform liberal or conservative beliefs, are even more alarmed: 50 percent of consistent liberals and 66 percent of consistent conservatives see the other party as a threat to the nation.The animosity is so deep that many would be unhappy if a close relative married someone of a different political persuasion: 23 percent of consistent liberals would be unhappy if an immediate family member married a conservative, and 30 percent of consistent conservatives would be unhappy if a close relative married a Democrat.Other marital preferences indirectly uphold the partisan divide. Twenty-seven percent of consistent liberals would be unhappy if an immediate family member married a born-again Christian. Conversely, 23 percent of conservatives would be unhappy if a close relative married someone of a different race, compared to 1 percent of consistent liberals.The survey shows that liberals and conservatives have self-segregating preferences, with many explicitly preferring to live around people with similar political views, and others expressing preferences that indirectly lead them toward communities dominated by their fellow partisans.Twenty-eight percent of Americans say it’s important to live in a place where most people share their political views, including 50 percent of voters with consistently conservative beliefs and 35 percent of consistent liberals.Nonpartisan lifestyle preferences indirectly reinforce the partisan divide. Consistently liberal Americans want to live in walkable communities with smaller homes by a huge 77-21 margin, while three-quarters of consistently conservative Americans would rather live in communities with larger homes, but where schools and other amenities are miles away. Just 4 percent of consistent conservatives say they’d prefer to live in a city, compared with 46 percent of consistent liberals.Religion and diversity also factor into living choices. Fifty-seven percent of consistent conservatives say it’s important to live in a place where many share their religious faith, compared with just 17 percent of consistent liberals; 76 percent of consistent liberals say it’s important to live in an area with a mix of people from different racial or ethnic backgrounds, compared with 20 percent of consistent conservatives.The poll does not prove that Americans are acting on these lifestyle preferences. But the results are highly consistent with the growing geographic polarization of America, where urban areas vote overwhelmingly Democratic, and rural and exurban areas, like Mr. Cantor’s district, vote overwhelmingly for Republicans.The urban-rural divide is at the heart of the polarization of Congress. There would be many more competitive districts if Democrats and Republicans were fairly evenly dispersed across the country, as they were for most of the middle of the 20th century.But geographic polarization means that there are few areas where it is even possible to draw a district full of persuadable voters.The tendency for liberals and conservatives to self-segregate most likely reinforces the ideological and partisan divide, as voters silo themselves into echo chambers where dissenting opinions are rare. Consistent liberals and consistent conservatives now make up 20 percent of the electorate, up from just 7 percent a decade ago.Voters, then, are not simply sorting into the appropriate political party; they are gradually adopting more consistently liberal or conservative viewpoints.These more ideological voters are also disproportionately influential. They are the most energized voters and the likeliest to contribute to political campaigns. They are less likely to support compromise. And they’re the likeliest to participate in primaries, like Tuesday’s contest in Virginia.