Credit...Pool photo by Charles DharapakJuly 27, 2014WASHINGTON — After failing to win a deal to end fighting in Gaza last week, Secretary of State John Kerry is trying to salvage Plan B: a succession of temporary cease-fires that he hopes might yet open the door to Israeli and Palestinian negotiations for a long-term solution.On Sunday, however, Mr. Kerry was having difficulty accomplishing even that, despite a phone call in which President Obama, in a sign of mounting impatience, urged Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu of Israel to embrace an “immediate, unconditional humanitarian cease-fire” while the two sides pursued a more lasting agreement. Part of the reason the diplomatic effort has faced such an uphill struggle is far-reaching changes on both sides since the last Gaza cease-fire in 2012. Israel and Hamas seem to be dug in this time, with Israeli officials appearing dismissive of Mr. Kerry’s push for a weeklong cease-fire in a way that few American secretaries of state have faced.Hamas is holding out for a commitment to open major border crossings and ease the embargo after failing to get the benefits it had anticipated after the cease-fire two years ago.Israel, after encountering a more formidable Hamas tunnel network than it had expected and being struck by longer-range missiles than ever, is determined not to stop until it has neutralized much of the threat.The challenge of reconciling the seemingly irreconcilable is all the more difficult because there is no party that is in a position to mediate directly between Hamas and Israel. The United States does not deal directly with Hamas. And the countries with the closest ties, Qatar and Turkey, have fraught relations with Egypt, whose cease-fire plan has provided the broad framework for Mr. Kerry’s efforts.Robert Danin, a fellow at the Council on Foreign Relations and a former State Department official, said that while it was premature to write off Mr. Kerry’s struggle to achieve a cease-fire, the challenges were formidable. “There is nothing to suggest that either side is particularly desperate for a cease-fire,” he said. “Neither side believes a cease-fire will be the end of the conflict, and they are looking at a truce as a way to position themselves for the next round of fighting.”The behind-the-scenes diplomacy for a cease-fire began two weeks ago when Egypt published a plan that sought to halt the fighting but did not commit to meeting Gaza’s demands that border crossings be opened or prisoners released until the security situation became “stable.” The Egyptians talked with Israel in developing the plan, calling for an immediate end to hostilities, followed eventually by longer-term discussions on Gaza, but never managed to bring Hamas on board. The United States was informed that Israel thought a round of shuttle diplomacy by Mr. Kerry was not needed or desired, diplomats said.As the casualties mounted, including the deaths of hundreds of civilians, Mr. Obama decided last week that it was time for Mr. Kerry to go to the region to try to build on the Egyptian plan. From the start, there were signs that the United States and Israel were not on the same wavelength.On July 21, Mr. Obama declared that the window for a cease-fire was open because “significant damage” had been done to Hamas’s “terrorist infrastructure in Gaza.” But that was not an assessment that the Israeli military fully shared.After five days of marathon diplomacy in Egypt and Israel, Mr. Kerry presented Mr. Netanyahu with a confidential draft, titled “Framework for Humanitarian Cease-Fire in Gaza.”A version of the document, which was presented on Friday, stated that a seven-day cease-fire was to be established by Sunday.Two days later, talks would begin in Cairo between Israel and the Palestinians on achieving an “enduring solution” to the crisis in Gaza, a phrase that Hamas could read as the lifting of the economic embargo and that Mr. Netanyahu could interpret as the neutralization of the group’s military threat to Israel.The draft, which was obtained by The New York Times, noted that the parties would “refrain from conducting any military or security targeting of each other.” But it did not explicitly call on Israel to stop sealing the tunnels during the humanitarian pause. Those operations have continued during recent cease-fire efforts, creating anger on the Palestinian side.Humanitarian aid was to be delivered during the pause, and the United States, Turkey, Qatar, the European Union, the Arab League and the United Nations pledged to “address the needs of the people of Gaza.”Mr. Kerry and his team thought that the document reflected language that could be basically acceptable to Israel because some of it concerning border crossings and security had paralleled the November 2012 Gaza cease-fire and the Egyptian proposal this month.But rather than treating it as a working draft on which they could comment, American officials assert, the Israelis appeared to think it tilted too far to Hamas’s position and did not do nearly enough to address the security threat to Israel. Major elements of the plan were leaked to the Israeli news media, and there has been a flow of criticism of Mr. Kerry since then by Israeli politicians on both the left and right.Though American officials insisted that they coordinated their diplomatic moves with Israel, Barak Ravid, a correspondent for the newspaper Haaretz, wrote that Mr. Kerry’s draft “shocked” Israeli cabinet ministers because it “placed Israel and Hamas on the same level.”VideoIn Cairo, Secretary of State John Kerry called for for a seven-day humanitarian cease-fire between Israel and Hamas for the Muslim Eid al-Fitr holiday next week.CreditCredit...Pool photo byAt a Friday night news conference in Cairo, a frustrated Mr. Kerry insisted that the paper was never intended to be a “formal proposal” and described the leaks as “mischievous.”With no seven-day pause at hand, Israel and Hamas agreed to a 12-hour respite and Mr. Kerry raced to Paris. There he met with European foreign ministers to enlist support for a cease-fire, and held a meeting with his Qatari and Turkish counterparts, who were functioning as negotiators for Hamas. The photos of Mr. Kerry meeting with the Qatari and Turkish foreign ministers did nothing to alleviate Israel’s concerns, but American officials say the discussions were needed to try to get Hamas on board.On Saturday, Mr. Kerry again pressed for an extension of the 12-hour cease-fire. By stringing together enough temporary periods of quiet, he calculated, there might yet be a way for the Israelis and the Palestinians to begin talks on a long-term solution.The Israeli side initially announced a four-hour cease-fire so that the earlier 12-hour truce would not run out before the Israeli cabinet could deliberate on whether to extend it for another day, which it eventually did. Some American officials believe Hamas saw reports of the four-hour cease-fire as a sign of bad faith since it was not the daylong truce they had been told was on the table. That, and perhaps differences between fighters in Gaza and Khaled Meshal, the Hamas political leader who lives in Qatar, led Hamas to unleash a barrage of fire, which eventually led Israel to respond in kind.Working through Qatar, Mr. Kerry finally got Hamas on Sunday to announce its 24-hour cease-fire. But the mistrust between Hamas and Israel appeared as deep as ever.Even as critics complained that Mr. Kerry was on a fool’s errand — trying to salvage even a Gaza truce after failing in a prolonged effort to reach a deeper peace deal that would establish a Palestinian state — the secretary and his team held fast to their plan.“You have a way now to stanch the bleeding,” one senior State Department official said.