Credit...Bruce Asato/The Star-Advertiser, via Associated PressAug. 10, 2014HONOLULU — After nearly four decades in elected office in Hawaii, Gov. Neil Abercrombie was dealt a stunning defeat in his bid for re-election, becoming the first governor in the state’s history to lose in a primary race.Mr. Abercrombie, 76, a Democrat, was defeated Saturday by David Ige, 57, who began the campaign as a little-known state senator but capitalized on the governor’s sinking popularity.The defeat will mark the end of Mr. Abercrombie’s long political career, which took him from the State Legislature, to Congress, to the governor’s residence. He collected only about 31 percent of the vote, compared with 66 percent for Mr. Ige.“Every waking breath that I’ve taken, every thought that I’ve had before I slept, was for Hawaii,” said Mr. Abercrombie, who has spent nearly 40 years in public office, half of that time in Washington as a member of the House of Representatives. “Whatever faults I had, one of them has never been a failure to give all that I can every day.“Hawaii is everything to me,” Mr. Abercrombie said, and pledged to support Mr. Ige in the general election.Mr. Ige seemed to hardly believe how easily he won, after overcoming enormous disadvantages in fund-raising and name recognition. Through July 25, Mr. Abercrombie had spent nearly $5 million in his re-election bid; Mr. Ige spent less than $500,000, according to the Hawaii Campaign Spending Commission.But the money did not matter. As the election became a referendum on an unpopular governor, voters who knew little about Mr. Ige were willing to support him.“When we started this 13 months ago, I had people tell me I was crazy,” he said. “No one thought we would be anywhere close to where we are today.”Another high-profile Democratic incumbent, Senator Brian Schatz, was locked in a tight primary race with Colleen Hanabusa, a congresswoman, which remained too close to call on Sunday. With all but two precincts reporting, Mr. Schatz held a lead of about 1,600 votes.Tropical Storm Iselle, despite sparing the state major damage when it hit on Friday, ultimately did disrupt the election: Voting had been postponed in two precincts on the Big Island, where the storm had hit hardest and thousands of people remained without power or running water. The nearly 8,000 voters in those two precincts would be able to vote by mail in the coming weeks if they had not already taken advantage of early voting, which meant that the bitter Senate campaign would continue a little longer. With less than 1 percent of the vote currently separating the two candidates, a recount was also possible. The specter of Daniel K. Inouye, the late senator and war hero from Hawaii, hung over the gubernatorial and Senate races. In the last days of his life in 2012, he asked Mr. Abercrombie to appoint Ms. Hanabusa to succeed him. But Mr. Abercrombie ignored his request and instead appointed Mr. Schatz, his lieutenant governor, to complete Mr. Inouye’s term in the Senate.Mr. Schatz and Mr. Abercrombie enjoyed strong support from the Democratic establishment, including President Obama, who grew up in Hawaii.Ms. Hanabusa, meanwhile, repeatedly underscored her connections to Mr. Inouye, whose son attended her campaign rally on Saturday. She played up her roots in rural Hawaii, while trying to paint Mr. Schatz as a usurper who was now enjoying support from Washington. (Mr. Schatz also grew up in Hawaii.)ImageCredit...Marco Garcia/Associated Press“This is the United States Senate race, the one to determine who would succeed Senator Inouye,” Ms. Hanabusa said. “This is the first time the people have had a say.“All the people from the mainland coming in and dumping all that money, and we’re still this close. This election is not over.”But the disregard for Mr. Inouye’s final wishes seemed to hurt Mr. Abercrombie more than it hurt Mr. Schatz, and Ms. Hanabusa would need to win a huge majority of the remaining votes on the Big Island to take the lead. Both candidates planned to visit the storm-hit area in the coming days to address the humanitarian needs — and stump for the final few votes“This is about the kind of representation that we need in the United States Senate that doesn’t divide people across the state, that doesn’t focus on the negative, that doesn’t focus on ways to split communities up,” Mr. Schatz said. “What really matters is the ambitions of people from across the state of Hawaii.”One voter in Honolulu, Ray Yourchek, said he had voted for Mr. Abercrombie in 2010, but on Saturday, he supported Mr. Ige. “I think we need a change at the top,” said Mr. Yourchek. “I think Ige wants to bring the political scene more back to the people, instead of the political interests that we’ve had the last few years.”State Senator Josh Green, a Democrat who did not endorse a candidate in either race, said the controversy over Mr. Schatz’s appointment was indicative of a larger problem Mr. Abercrombie had connecting with voters.“Abercrombie failed to connect emotionally with the electorate,” Mr. Green said. “Normally the incumbent has a gigantic advantage, because he has every possible opportunity to develop an emotional relationship with voters. But Abercrombie was distant emotionally from his constituents.”