    
Obama spoke from the media work space in Edgartown, Mass. President Barack Obama expressed concern Thursday about the “violent turn” in Ferguson, Mo., saying “now is the time for healing” following days of protests after a fatal police shooting.  “Now is the time for peace and calm on the streets of Ferguson,” Obama said from Martha’s Vineyard, where he is vacationing. “Now is the time for an open and transparent process to see that justice is done.”  Ferguson has been the site of protests since the death of Michael Brown, an 18-year-old African-American who was shot several times by a police officer over the weekend. The chief of police there has refused to disclose the identity of the officer in question, citing safety concerns. The situation continued to escalate Wednesday night as police used tear gas and smoke bombs to repel protesters, and arrested two reporters from Washington.  ( Also on POLITICO: Jay Nixon on protests: 'We live in a free country')  “There is never an excuse for violence against police or for those who would use this tragedy as a cover for vandalism or looting,” Obama said. “There is also no excuse for police to use excessive force against peaceful protests or to throw protesters in jail for lawfully expressing their First Amendment rights.”  Obama did not specifically mention the arrests of two reporters, who work for the Huffington Post and the Washington Post. But he did speak to the aggressive law enforcement tactics.  “Here in the United States of America, police should not be bullying or arresting journalists who are just trying to do their jobs and report to the American people on what they are seeing on the ground,” Obama said. “Put simply, we all need to hold ourselves to a high standard, particularly those of us in positions of authority.”  ( Also on POLITICO: Ferguson mayor: Reporters' arrest not 'fair')  The remarks were his most extensive to date on the clashes, which started on Sunday. Obama made the statement from the media work space in Edgartown, trading in the traditional scenic vacation backdrop for the sober visual of him standing in front an American flag and a blue curtain.  Obama put out a statement on the shooting Tuesday, and on Wednesday night, Obama was briefed on the ongoing situation by senior adviser Valerie Jarrett and Attorney General Eric Holder. A White House spokesman provided the update on Twitter, about two hours after the president departed a much-hyped cocktail party attended by former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton, where the former rivals-turned-allies were expected smooth over their recent differences on foreign policy. 
