VideoHillary Rodham Clinton made a high-profile appearance at the Harkin Steak Fry in Iowa and touched on topics including her soon-to-arrive grandchild and a possible presidential run in 2016.CreditCredit...Daniel Acker for The New York TimesSept. 14, 2014INDIANOLA, Iowa — It was a preview of coming distractions.When Bill and Hillary Rodham Clinton decided to return to the state where her presidential ambitions first came undone six years ago, the idea was that they would remind Democratic activists about the importance of the midterm elections and honor their host, Senator Tom Harkin, Democrat of Iowa, who is retiring from Congress and held his final steak fry fund-raiser here Sunday. And that was what transpired, in part, on a sun-splashed day on a balloon field here, just south of Des Moines.But as is often the case wherever Mr. Clinton goes, what amounted to the unofficial start of the next Iowa presidential caucuses was as much about the Clinton who already served as president as the one who appears to have designs on the office.The 37th Harkin Steak Fry began with an impromptu 15-minute question-and-answer session between Mr. Clinton and a few dozen reporters at what is traditionally only a brief photo-op with the V.I.P.s and the beef on the grill.It concluded with a 30-minute tour d’horizon from the former president on topics including Haiti, his soon-to-arrive grandchild, Senator Mitch McConnell and the impact of the billionaires the Koch brothers on American politics. In between, Mr. Harkin; his wife, Ruth; and Mrs. Clinton herself did their best to focus attention on the other half of the once and perhaps future first couple.In a speech that was her most overtly political since she left the State Department last year, Mrs. Clinton repeatedly hinted at her intentions. She laced her remarks with all manner of pregnant references to the state that kicks off the presidential nominating process and veiled asides about her plans. ImageCredit...Daniel Acker for The New York Times“Hello, Iowa, I’m back!” she exclaimed upon taking the microphone, stretching out the “a” in “back” as she smiled in front of hay bales, an American flag and a John Deere tractor. Speaking to about 10,000 Democrats — many of whom wore stickers distributed by Ready for Hillary, an outside group that aims to build grass-roots enthusiasm for a potential Clinton candidacy — the former first lady all but winked and raised her eyebrows. “It’s true,” she said, teasing the crowd. “I am thinking about it.” In motivating the audience to vote in November, Mrs. Clinton said, “Too many people only get excited about presidential campaigns.” She added, after waiting a beat: “Look, I get excited about presidential campaigns, too.” Just to make sure the crowd had not missed her point, she concluded her first speech in Iowa since 2008 by saying, “Let’s not let another seven years go by.”On Sunday, Mrs. Clinton repeatedly said she was glad to be back in Iowa, but the state holds bitter memories for her. ImageCredit...Daniel Acker for The New York TimesIn the 2008 Democratic caucus, Mrs. Clinton came in third behind then-Senator Barack Obama and John Edwards, a former senator from North Carolina. Her top campaign aides went on to criticize Iowa’s caucus as undemocratic and unimportant in selecting presidents, and she had not been back since the late-night results came in on Jan. 3, 2008.Mrs. Clinton’s first presidential campaign started here, with schmoozing at Mr. Harkin’s steak fry. At the event in 2007, the Clinton campaign, once seen as inevitable, saw firsthand the grass-roots support Mr. Obama had garnered in the crucial early voting state.“It really does feel like just yesterday when I was here,” Mrs. Clinton told the crowd. “As I recall, there was a young senator from Illinois there.”Mrs. Clinton has devoted much of her time since leaving her post as President Obama’s secretary of state to paid speeches and discussion of foreign policy to promote her memoir “Hard Choices.” But on Sunday, she jumped aggressively back into domestic politics with a populist message that praised the president, but also acknowledged that much work needed to be done to stem the tide of rising inequality.“We can build a growing economy of shared prosperity,” Mrs. Clinton said.Her speech also touched on women’s economic and reproductive rights — hot-button issues in midterm elections that could be determined by female voters. ImageCredit...Daniel Acker for The New York TimesThe Harkins sought to make it clear that, while the Clintons were co-headliners, it was Mrs. Clinton who was to be the focal point. Mr. Harkin made sure to note that “there are many more chapters to be written in the amazing life of Hillary Clinton.” Yet for all the effort to shine a rhetorical light on Mrs. Clinton, it was Mr. Clinton who seemed most happy to be back on the grand stage of presidential politics. As the Clintons and Mr. Harkin stood a few feet away from the sizzling beef, Mr. Clinton initially sought to deflect attention.Asked how he was feeling, Mr. Clinton, his arm around Mrs. Clinton, replied, “As long as I’m still married to her, I’m good.”After indulging a few questions, Mrs. Clinton drifted away, and the grill-side session soon became the Tom and Bill Show. Mostly it was the latter.It was a vintage bit of Clinton garrulousness, and the former president had little appetite to cut it short, despite the increasingly urgent pleas from aides behind him and Mr. Harkin. Mr. Clinton showered praise on Mr. Harkin, who is retiring after 40 years in Congress and a failed presidential run (cut short by an up-and-coming Arkansas governor by the name of Clinton). But as has been the case throughout his political career, once Mr. Clinton got going, there was no stopping him. ImageCredit...Daniel Acker for The New York TimesMrs. Clinton was long gone by the time her husband was dishing out some of his favorite lines (the Founding Fathers were pragmatists, and the Constitution could be called “Let’s Make a Deal”), praising the Ready for Hillary crew (he compared them to the Energizer Bunny) and assessing midterm campaigns from Iowa to Arkansas. About the only topic Mr. Clinton did not broach was the one that drew many attendees and nearly all of the 200-plus credentialed reporters. “I will not be baited,” he said with a knowing grin when he was asked whether Mrs. Clinton would or would not disappoint all those activists working for Ready for Hillary. The event planners originally wanted Mrs. Clinton to follow her husband, but protocol dictated that he speak last. The former president recounted at some length his relationship and brief rivalry with Mr. Harkin. Additionally, Mr. Clinton used his remarks to decry dysfunction in Washington, and Republicans’ inability to strike compromise. He also lit into the billionaire conservative Kochs, who he said were “running black-bag operations” in this year’s campaign.After the speeches, Mrs. Clinton shook hands, signed copies of her book and posed for selfies with supporters. The former president followed close behind, also drawing a crowd of well-wishers.