WASHINGTON – Saying that Fox News "isn't working for us anymore," President Donald Trump slammed the network Wednesday for its coverage of the 2020 presidential race.Trump in a series of tweets accused Fox News of "promoting the Democrats through their DNC Communications Director, spewing out whatever she wanted with zero pushback by anchor, @SandraSmithFox."DNC communications director Xochitl Hinojosa was on Fox News' "America's Newsroom" to discuss the Democratic race, as Wednesday is the last day that candidates can meet the polling requirements to be in the upcoming Democratic primary debate in September. Trump criticized Fox News for giving Hinojosa a platform despite the Democratic National Committee not allowing them to host a debate.The president also criticized the network for hiring Donna Brazile, the former interim DNC director. Brazile forwarded questions to Hillary Clinton during the Democratic primary season. He also slammed Fox News anchor Shepard Smith and analyst Juan Williams."Fox hires 'give Hillary the questions' @donnabrazile, Juan Williams and low ratings Shep Smith. HOPELESS & CLUELESS! They should go all the way LEFT and I will still find a way to Win - That’s what I do, Win. Too Bad!" Trump wrote online."I don’t want to Win for myself, I only want to Win for the people," he continued. "The New @FoxNews is letting millions of GREAT people down! We have to start looking for a new News Outlet. Fox isn’t working for us anymore!"Trump has repeatedly slammed the media throughout his tenure as president as "fake news" and "enemy of the people."USA TODAY/Suffolk poll:Americans dread the 2020 election; Biden maintains his leadMore:Trump calls out small 2020 GOP primary field including Joe Walsh, Bill Weld and potential challenger Mark SanfordMore:Trump complains on Twitter about media's coverage of crowd size at Elizabeth Warren's campaign eventsHowever, Trump has at times omitted Fox News from his criticisms, often praising them for their coverage. He has also had cozy relationships with several Fox News opinion commentators, such as Sean Hannity and Jeanine Pirro. Over the past couple of weeks though, Trump has increasingly blasted Fox News' coverage, especially being critical of Smith and Williams.Some conservative commentators have pushed back against Trump's criticism.Guy Benson, Fox News contributor and politics editor of Townhall — a conservative outlet, simply replied to Trump's tweet saying: "We don’t work for you."Like what you’re reading?:Download the USA TODAY app for more