U.S.|Armed Outside Guard Was Allowed on Elevator With President, Officials Sayhttps://www.nytimes.com/2014/10/01/us/armed-man-boarded-elevator-with-obama-official-reports.htmlArmed Outside Guard Was Allowed on Elevator With President, Officials SaySept. 30, 2014WASHINGTON — An armed private security guard rode in an elevator with President Obama when he visited the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention in Atlanta on Sept. 16, violating Secret Service protocols that only agents and officers for the agency should carry a gun around the president, according to law enforcement officials.The incident was first reported by The Washington Examiner just hours after Julia Pierson, the director of the Secret Service, defended her agency on Capitol Hill as angry lawmakers demanded explanations for a string of embarrassing incidents and security lapses in recent months.Details of the incident at the C.D.C., which occurred three days before an intruder managed to get through the front door of the White House, were incomplete. But a law enforcement official said Tuesday that a contract security guard who provided protection for high-profile visitors managed to get on an elevator with Mr. Obama and agents from his security detail during the president’s visit to the center.The man was taking pictures and acting “unprofessionally,” one of the officials said. The Secret Service enforces a strict “no pictures” policy for private moments around the president.When the guard’s bosses were told of his behavior, he was fired on the spot, according to the officials. It was only then that the Secret Service learned that he had been armed. The agency later discovered that the man had been arrested several times, most recently in 1996. The man, who had worked for the security contracting company for over a decade, was not convicted in connection with any of the arrests.Secret Service protocols state that only agents and officers for the agency should be armed while in proximity to the president. The guard was not screened by a magnetometer as he should have been before being allowed to be close to Mr. Obama, according to one of the officials.Elevator rides are typically planned by the Secret Service. Agents make up manifests detailing who will ride with the president and who will be allowed on nearby elevators.The incident was considered such a significant breach that agents from the security detail went that night to the Secret Service field office in Atlanta to begin a review to determine how the man managed to get so close to the president.