    Agents say the next director faces an uphill battle to fix the agency. President Barack Obama is hanging out the “Help Wanted” sign again.  With the resignation Wednesday of Director Julia Pierson, the Secret Service is the latest beleaguered agency to be deemed in need of a top-to-bottom housecleaning after high-profile management failures — failures that followed numerous red flags and complaints that low-ranking personnel didn’t feel comfortable flagging potential problems.  In May, Obama accepted the resignation of Veterans Affairs Secretary Eric Shinseki after reports that staff at VA hospitals were falsifying records to make delays in testing and treatment seem shorter than they were. Just a month earlier, the president announced that Health and Human Services Secretary Kathleen Sebelius was on her way out following the failed rollout of the Obamacare website.  ( Also on POLITICO: Obama and the Secret Service)  And last year, Obama demanded and received the resignation of the acting commissioner of the Internal Revenue Service after conservative and other nonprofit groups were targeted for special scrutiny in a manner the president called “inexcusable.”  Indeed, Pierson was herself supposed to usher in a new era at the Secret Service in the wake of the international embarrassment security agents caused Obama in Cartagena, Colombia, in 2012 by cavorting with prostitutes on the night before the president arrived in town. However, the string of embarrassments continued to pile up under her tenure, with an intruder making it over the White House fence and across the ground floor of the residence before being apprehended and another man reportedly carrying a gun while operating an elevator Obama rode in during a Georgia visit last month.  An interim director has been named for the Secret Service, former Presidential Protective Division chief Joe Clancy. Former agents and lawmakers say he and whoever is named as a permanent director for the agency face an uphill battle to restore the image of an agency badly tarnished in recent days.  ( Also on POLITICO: Secret Service director Julia Pierson resigns)  Here are five audiences the new director will need to win over — or intimidate — in order to get the Secret Service back on track:  1) The Obamas  Because of the tradition of presidents not criticizing the men and women who protect them 24/7, it’s hard to gauge the level of presidential outrage over the recent Secret Service slip-ups. However, some former agents say that while Obama is sanguine about a certain degree of risk for himself, that cool is unlikely to extend to indications that his wife or, even more so, his children could be in danger.  “The president of the United States is a father and husband first. That’s his house,” said former agent and current Maryland Republican congressional candidate Dan Bongino. “Gunshots were fired at the home where his children live. … Leaving all politics aside, he’s a doting father, so this has to deeply disturb him.”  ( Also on POLITICO: Why we need a less-Secret Service)  A top priority for Clancy will have to be restoring the trust with the Obamas. He may be well-positioned to do that since he headed up the agents who worked most closely with Obama during his first few years in office. “He has a very close relationship with the president’s inner circle. … He will mend the personal fences with the president and his family,” Bongino predicted.  2) Congress  While White House press secretary Josh Earnest made Pierson’s exit sound like a presidential decision by declaring that Obama “concluded that new leadership … was required,” Pierson suggested that a key factor that drove her out was that lawmakers didn’t think she could turn the Service around.  “Congress has lost confidence in my ability to run the agency. The media has made it clear that this is what they expected,” Pierson told Bloomberg News on Wednesday.  The prolonged battering that Pierson took Tuesday when she testified before the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee was striking for its bipartisanship at a time when Republicans and Democrats rarely agree on anything — particularly what constitutes a Washington scandal. When lawmakers on both sides of the aisle began talking about calling for her resignation, her departure was all but inevitable.  “When members of Congress from both parties start to say there’s something wrong with the culture [at an agency], that’s the kiss of death,” former FBI executive Tom Fuentes said on CNN.  One detail members of Congress know that few outsiders do is that the Secret Service has traditionally policed itself, usually escaping scrutiny by the inspectors general who probe other Homeland Security components. Ending that carve-out is one way a new director could try to repair relations with the Hill.  “The internal investigations have proven fruitless,” Rep. Jason Chaffetz (R-Utah) warned Wednesday. “They have not been thorough or complete.”  3) The rank and file  Morale at the Secret Service was said to be low even before the recent spate of high-profile incidents. Between 2011 and 2013, one key index of employee satisfaction fell from 65.8 to 52.8, leaving the Service ranking 226 out of 300 federal agencies. Pierson and her fellow managers have pointed to budget cuts and sequestration, but others say that’s not most of the explanation. They say senior management at the Service is perceived as self-perpetuating and detached from the agents and officers on the street.  “It’s not a disconnect. It’s a chasm, almost a canyon,” Bongino said. “It’s a class of management oligarchs.”  That disconnect is particularly acute because the Uniformed Division officers who guard the White House entrances and foreign embassies around Washington and staff the security checkpoints at presidential events often find themselves in jobs that are far less excitement-packed than they expected.  “There may be a little bit of a truth in advertising problem with this mystique about the Secret Service,” said Jim Pasco of the Fraternal Order of Police, which represents the uniformed officers. “They find themselves working long hours under stressful circumstances often in less than glamorous assignments. All of these things are going to ultimately affect morale.”  Pasco said a new director might find a way to improve retention of officers by rotating them more and making sure that rank-and-file input is taken seriously, rather than dismissed.  4) The public and the press  The damage the Secret Service has managed to do to its public reputation in recent years and in recent days is impressive. While most police agencies regularly take a fair amount of public criticism, the Secret Service has usually risen above that, receiving flattering attention from the media and even in movies.  Now, the Service has become the butt of jokes. An image circulated by journalists on Twitter this week showed Secret Service agents failing to stop the cartoon character Clifford the Dog after he jumped over the White House fence.  On a more serious note, many in the media are still awaiting an explanation from the Service or the White House about why it took 10 days for the agency to publicly correct statements it gave reporters that intruder Omar Gonzalez was stopped just inside the White House entrance. In fact, it now appears that Gonzalez made it all the way across the ground floor of the residence before being tackled.  The trust the Service engendered in the public and the media over the years has benefited the agency in a myriad of ways, winning the cooperation of average citizens and the deference of the press in handling the sensitive situations that often arise involving threats to the president or other protectees. Future statements from the agency are unlikely to be taken at face value, and new leadership will have to rebuild its relationship with the media.  Some former officials also warn that public opinion can be fickle. While the media seems to be aghast at the lax security, some former Secret Service officials say public opinion could quickly turn in another direction if the next intruder or suspected intruder is shot and killed.  A new director’s “biggest challenge may be convincing the officers and agents that they did the right thing by not shooting and apprehending an unarmed individual who jumped the fence while the president and first family were not present in the residence,” said David Carpenter, who headed up President Bill Clinton’s protective detail in the 1990s.  5) Enemies  Perhaps the most dangerous aspect of the Secret Service’s recent foul-ups is that they diminish the aura of invincibility that is a significant part of keeping Obama, his family and presidential candidates safe. Anyone who has covered the White House or campaigns knows that despite the high-tech surveillance gear, the counter-assault teams and counter-sniper teams and the tanklike presidential limousines, there are gaps in security — some of them probably inevitable.  But the image of the world’s best bodyguard service has long been critical to dissuading most potential troublemakers from even attempting some kind of attack. Now, that force-field, created in large part by popular culture, seems to be fading.  All the video of people running across the White House lawn and the talk of bullets being fired at the White House seems certain to inspire mentally troubled copycats and could serve as a road map of sorts for terrorists who might have previously thought such a mission too difficult. A new director needs to bring an end to these kinds of incidents that have the potential to give bad ideas to bad people and the mentally ill.  “The thing that’s hurting [the Service] … is the reputation is getting diminished,” Rep. Elijah Cummings (D-Md.) said on CNN. “The mere fact that you and I are talking about this right now — talking about the Secret Service right now — is diminishing their image, and that image … is extremely important, because that reputation is largely a big reason why there is so much deterrence with regard to anybody trying to go after the president, or the vice president, and others.”  Jennifer Epstein contributed to this report. 
