    
POLITICO Staff Voters who intend to support Republicans in the most consequential Senate and House elections this November had significantly less confidence in the federal government’s response to the occurrence of Ebola, according to a new POLITICO poll.  The survey underscores the dangers for Democrats in the midterms if the Obama administration is perceived as mishandling the government’s reaction to the virus.  Only 43 percent of likely voters who chose the Republican candidate in battleground Senate states and House districts said they have “a lot” or “some” confidence that the U.S. “is doing everything possible to contain the spread of Ebola,” the poll shows. That compares to 81 percent of Democratic supporters who have at least some confidence in the government’s response.  ( POLITICO Poll results and analysis)  The poll was conducted Oct. 3-11, leaving the field the same day that a nurse in Dallas tested positive for the disease. Since then, a second nurse has also tested positive for Ebola. The two are the first cases of Ebola contracted in the United States; Thomas Eric Duncan died on Oct. 8 in Dallas after apparently contracting Ebola in Liberia.  ( See more from POLITICO's Polling Center)  President Barack Obama has stepped up his administration’s response to Ebola since the two domestic cases were diagnosed. On Wednesday and Thursday of last week, the president canceled a series of campaign trips. And on Friday, he designated Ronald Klain, a former chief of staff to Vice Presidents Al Gore and Joe Biden, as the administration’s point person for Ebola response.  ( POLITICO Poll: Full results)  Overall, the POLITICO poll found 22 percent of likely voters had a lot of confidence the federal government is doing everything it can when it comes to Ebola. Thirty-nine percent said they had some confidence in the government, 21 percent had “not much confidence” and 12 percent had “no confidence at all.”  The poll — for which POLITICO partnered with SocialSphere Inc. of Cambridge, Massachusetts — was conducted online and administered by GfK, using a sample from KnowledgePanel, a large, national, probability-based online-survey panel. The margin of error for the survey of 840 likely, battleground voters is plus or minus 4.2 percentage points and is higher for subgroups. 
