It takes a special kind of gall to quit a six-figure media job
in the doomed year of 2020. But that’s just what Glenn Greenwald has done,
following in the martyred footsteps of erstwhile New York Times freethinker Bari Weiss. In a 4,000-word
Substack post, Greenwald resigned from his healthy
perch at The Intercept, a publication he co-founded, explaining, in his
typically piqued and exhaustive manner, that he had been “censored.” The censorship—an inflated and, in this case, misapplied term
that Greenwald would probably mock if used by someone else—concerns a column
Greenwald submitted about Hunter Biden’s now infamous laptop. In Greenwald’s
view, the column was censored in favor of a pro-Biden narrative being
promulgated throughout The Intercept, a once noble publication now laid low by
the plague of liberal-leftist illiberalism and groupthink that has become
Greenwald’s recent obsession. As part of his comprehensive documentation of his
Intercept exit, Greenwald posted
the column on Substack, where he said his writing
will appear for now.Greenwald also posted email
exchanges with Intercept editors that indicate they
thought the column, among other deficits, included sweeping and unsubstantiated
claims about media malfeasance and implied Biden family corruption. As
Intercept editor Peter Maas wrote, in a section that Greenwald bolded: “Overall
I think this piece can work best if it is significantly narrowed down to what
you first discussed with Betsy [Reed]—media criticism about liberal journalists
not asking Biden the questions he should be asked more forcefully, and why they
are failing to do that.”Censorship! Or, just maybe, an editorial note that a notoriously
egotistical writer doesn’t like. That Greenwald chose to bold this section—as if
it exemplified the suppressive behavior of what he calls “an increasingly authoritarian, fear-driven,
repressive editorial team in New York bent on imposing their own ideological
and partisan preferences on all writers”—only reveals his lack of familiarity
with any rigorous editing. You could spend hours of your life that you’ll never get back
parsing Greenwald’s resignation letter, his spiked column, the emails from
editors, and his feverish tweets about it all. Instead, you could skip to the
real problem here, which is that Greenwald seems to think he is beyond editing
or critique. As he wrote to an editor, “Recall that under my contract, and the
practice of The Intercept over the last seven years, none of my articles is
edited unless it presents the possibility of legal liability or complex
original reporting.”There’s no need to exalt editing as a rarefied practice to argue
for its importance. A good editor is a useful collaborator who, among other
things, corrects inaccuracies and saves a writer from his worst tendencies.
Among Greenwald’s is an utter certitude in whatever he does, no matter the
klaxons blaring, from colleagues and the evidence right in front of him, that
perhaps he might be wrong. Humility and a tolerance of ambiguity have never
been hallmarks of his work.In his resignation letter, Greenwald claims that he felt forced
to leave The Intercept and didn’t have much of a plan beyond hoping that his
supporters would follow him to Substack, where they can contribute directly to
his work. But deeper in the letter, he reveals that he had been considering a
post-Intercept future for some time: “I have spent a couple of months in active
discussions with some of the most interesting, independent and vibrant
journalists, writers and commentators across the political spectrum about the
feasibility of securing financing for a new outlet that would be designed to
combat these trends.”It would be a new publication, he said, staffed by people from
across the political spectrum who, according to a document that they’ve been
working on, share a belief that “American media is gripped in a polarized
culture war that is forcing journalism to conform to tribal, groupthink
narratives that are often divorced from the truth and cater to perspectives
that are not reflective of the broader public but instead a minority of
hyper-partisan elites.”An informed media observer, or someone who spends too much time
on Twitter, could come up with a list of who might be called to join such a
publication: Greenwald, Matt Taibbi, Bari Weiss, Andrew Sullivan, Zaid Jilani,
Thomas Chatterton Williams, Michael Tracey, perhaps some podcasters notorious
for straddling the left-right divide, and anyone else who thinks that threats
to speech emanate from a censorious, liberal-dominated culture and not from Donald
Trump, corporate power, or police brutalizing protesters in the streets.Forget Persuasion or Quillette or whatever free speech absolutist publication is currently fermenting in a billionaire’s petri dish.
This will be a Voltron of some of the most insufferable people in American
media, few of whom do any original reporting anymore, decrying the cancellation
of their friends at the hands of frigid elites. Funded by those same elites, it
likely will be humorless and dull, hammering on the same tired culture war
tropes until they are unrecognizable.And who will fund such a publication, whose staff will likely
expect to recuperate the hefty salaries they are accustomed to? The billionaire
that puts libertarian iconoclasts, professional rageaholics, racist disaffected
conservatives, and some members of the so-called Intellectual Dark Web on the
same payroll will be far more malevolent than Intercept owner Pierre Omidyar,
who has no shortage of his own peculiar investments and unacknowledged
political commitments. Some possibilities come to mind—perhaps a Trump-friendly
tech mogul notorious for killing a genuinely free-thinking publication—but one
hesitates to summon the demon by naming it. Beyond how grim it all looks, it’s rather sad. Greenwald has
done groundbreaking reporting on NSA surveillance and Brazilian corruption.
He’s risked jail to report necessary truths. He’s correct that much of the
media is, in one form or another, corrupt—occupying a narrow Overton window,
funded by special interests, willing to launder the reputations of awful people
like Greenwald’s bête noire David Frum, the former George W. Bush speechwriter
who is comfortably ensconced at The Atlantic. Cable news is
irredeemable. A great deal of digital media is sponsored content, ad fraud, and
content farms propping up more prestigious investigative units or simply
pumping money into the pockets of venal corporate owners. Individual
journalists, when they aren’t forced to seek an exit from an industry in
terminal decline, are left to chase readers and clout on Twitter. There’s
plenty to mock, as Greenwald spends hours doing each day. Whether his ornery
brand of media criticism—often divorced from the material and labor conditions
afflicting the profession—is the best use of his time and influence is
apparently not up for question. Betsy Reed, The Intercept’s editor in chief, summed up the
situation well, writing
in a response to Greenwald’s resignation: “We have the
greatest respect for the journalist Glenn Greenwald used to be, and we remain
proud of much of the work we did with him over the past six years. It is Glenn
who has strayed from his original journalistic roots, not The Intercept.”Bombast and ego have always been at the heart of Greenwald’s
writing. But like many star journalists left to marinate in their own juices
for too long, he’s become an asshole who equates being edited with the targeted
suppression of his righteous beliefs. Whatever he does next will be
interesting, at least at first, but absent a Snowden-level leak entrusted to
him, his work is unlikely to be essential. That’s not all for the worse. With
excellent reporting on militarism, political corruption, environmental issues,
and much else, The Intercept has matured into an important publication
producing exactly the kind of broadly adversarial journalism Greenwald has
always sought. Its many fine journalists will be better off when they are out
of the founder’s long shadow. Greenwald himself may not be.