Here’s the latest on Election Day … Biden is projected to win California, New York, Illinois, New Jersey, Virginia, Washington, Massachusetts, Maryland, Minnesota, Colorado, Connecticut, Hawaii, Oregon, New Mexico, New Hampshire, Rhode Island, Vermont, Delaware and the District of Columbia, plus one electoral vote in Nebraska.Trump is projected to win Texas, Florida, Ohio, Indiana, Tennessee, Missouri, Alabama, South Carolina, Kentucky, Louisiana, Oklahoma, Arkansas, Iowa, Kansas, Mississippi, Utah, West Virginia, Idaho, Montana, South Dakota, North Dakota and Wyoming, plus three electoral votes in Nebraska, according to Edison Research.Democrats captured an early advantage in their fight for the Senate majority, with ex-Colorado governor John Hickenlooper unseating GOP Sen. Cory Gardner; but the party’s chances of taking the chamber dwindled as results in other states rolled in.Republican Tommy Tuberville was projected to unseat Democratic Sen. Doug Jones in Alabama. Potentially vulnerable GOP senators, including Joni Ernst of Iowa and Lindsey O. Graham of South Carolina, held off their Democratic opponents. And Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell was reelected in Kentucky.Democrats appeared to be poised to retain their majority in the House but fell far short of their hopes for expansion.The U.S. Postal Service disregarded a federal judge’s election-day order to conduct processing-facility sweeps in 12 postal districts after the agency disclosed that more than 300,000 ballots could not be traced.Biden campaign manager calls Trump claims on ballots ‘outrageous, unprecedented and incorrect’Return to menuBiden’s campaign manager slammed Trump’s early-morning statement, in which he falsely described continuing to count votes as fraud, calling it “outrageous, unprecedented, and incorrect.” In a statement, Jen O’Malley Dillon described Trump’s speech as “a naked effort to take away the democratic rights of American citizens.” She said it was not up to the president to make such a call.“The counting will not stop,” she wrote. “It will not stop until every duly cast vote is counted. Because that is what our laws — the laws that protect every American’s constitutional right to vote — require.” O’Malley Dillon added that the Biden campaign has “legal teams standing by ready to deploy” if Trump seeks court intervention.Republicans, Democrats condemn Trump’s false claim of victory, say all votes should be countedReturn to menuTrump allies and opponents criticized his pledge to challenge states still counting votes, as well as the president’s false claim that he has already won the election.Chris Christie, a former GOP governor of New Jersey and close Trump ally, said all outstanding votes must be counted. “All these votes have to be counted that are in now. … Tonight was not the time to make this argument,” he said on ABC News. “I disagree with what he did tonight.”Rep. Adam Kinzinger (R-Ill.), who has voiced opposition to Trump in the past, tweeted at the president to “stop.”“Stop. Full stop. The votes will be counted and you will either win or lose. And America will accept that. Patience is a virtue,” Kinzinger wrote.Several Fox reporters and pundits also panned Trump’s claim to victory before all the voters’ ballots are counted. Dana Perino called it “deeply irresponsible,” while Juan Williams said it was “beyond the pale.”Meanwhile, Democratic Gov. Tom Wolf of Pennsylvania, where these battles may play out most dramatically, pledged that every vote would be counted.“We still have over 1 million mail ballots to count in Pennsylvania. I promised Pennsylvanians that we would count every vote, and that’s what we’re going to do,” Wolf said. “Let’s be clear: This is a partisan attack on Pennsylvania’s elections, our votes, and democracy. Our counties are working tirelessly to process votes as quickly AND as accurately as possible. Pennsylvania will have a fair election, and we will count every vote.”With millions of votes yet to be counted, Trump falsely asserts fraud and makes a claim of victoryReturn to menuPresident Trump spoke from the White House in the early morning on Nov. 4, promising a legal challenge up to Supreme Court. (The Washington Post)Trump threatened to ask the Supreme Court to intervene in the election process, saying voting had to stop and falsely claiming that by continuing to count votes already cast, the Democrats would be stealing the election. Polls have closed, and no more votes are being cast, only tallied.Speaking to about 150 maskless supporters inside the East Room of the White House, Trump made a claim of victory in states where millions of mail-in ballots are still being counted.He falsely described the situation as a “major fraud in our nation” and vowed to take his case to the Supreme Court.Voting did stop when polls closed Tuesday night, but in states including Pennsylvania and Michigan, counting the millions of mail-in ballots couldn’t begin until Election Day and may take several days to complete.Trump wrongly declared himself the winner of the election and wants the vote-counting to stop while he has a lead in the same-day voting tallies.“To me, this is a very sad moment, and we will win this. And as far as I’m concerned, we already have,” he said.Guests included former senior adviser Kellyanne Conway, former 2016 campaign manager Corey Lewandowski and Fox News personalities Laura Ingraham and Jeanine Pirro. Those in the crowd chanted “U-S-A” and cheered wildly for Trump’s false assertion of victory.Republican Sen. Steve Daines of Montana deals another blow to Democratic pickup hopes Return to menuRepublican Sen. Steve Daines (R) is projected to stave off a loss, winning reelection to his second term in the Senate.Daines fought off a challenge from term-limited Democratic Montana Gov. Steve Bullock, a big name who had won statewide three times. The staunch Trump ally was locked in a tight race with Bullock in the state the president won by more than 20 percentage points in 2016.The Republican’s victory further narrows Democrats’ chances of wresting control of the Senate.“I ran for office twelve years ago with one goal in mind: to make a meaningful difference in people’s lives. I have been so pleased with how we have been able to bring people together in Montana — even when we don’t always agree — to improve the lives of our families and our communities,” Bullock said in a statement conceding the race.The pair clashed during the campaign over the response to the pandemic — a GOP super PAC ran ads about the state’s response.Environmental issues also played a key role in the race for Senate in the Big Sky state. Daines, who has spent the latter half of his Senate term boosting his environmental records, touted himself as a “conservative conservationist.” His key legislative win was persuading the president to sign a bill called one of the most important environmental laws in decades.Republicans flip House seats in Oklahoma and Minnesota, hold on to a seat in Nebraska Return to menuRepublican Stephanie Bice has unseated incumbent Democratic Rep. Kendra Horn in Oklahoma’s 5th Congressional District.Horn, who flipped a Republican district in 2018 in a surprise win for Democrats, had distanced herself from Biden in recent weeks after he suggested in the final presidential debate that he would “transition” away from oil.The district includes Oklahoma City, one of the country’s oil capitals.In another flip by Republicans, Michelle Fischbach won in Minnesota’s 7th Congressional District.She defeated 15-term Democratic Rep. Collin C. Peterson, one of the most vulnerable House Democrats, in a rural district Trump won by double digits in 2016.In Nebraska’s 2nd Congressional District, Republican Rep. Don Bacon defeated Democratic challenger Kara Eastman.This is the second time Bacon defeated Eastman, who lost a challenge against Bacon in 2018.2:56 a.m.Senate callSteve Daines, a Republican, has won the Senate race in Montana, according to Edison Research.More election results 2:23 a.m.House callAnn Wagner, a Republican, has won in the 2nd District of Missouri, according to Edison Research.More election results 2:20 a.m.House callMichelle Fischbach, a Republican, has won in the 7th District of Minnesota, according to Edison Research.More election results The latest potential paths to victory Return to menuThe presidential race will probably remain up in the air in the hours and days to come, but the paths to victory have crystallized as election night has worn into Wednesday morning.Trump’s path to victory increasingly runs through Pennsylvania, which has polled as the closest of three Midwestern/Rust Belt states that he carried narrowly in 2016. But Pennsylvania alone wouldn’t be sufficient at this point, particularly if Biden turns Arizona blue, which current results suggest is likely.Trump wins Texas, crushing ‘Blue Texas’ dreams once againReturn to menuDemocrats started to dream about winning Texas after 2008, when Barack Obama became the first Democratic presidential candidate since Lyndon B. Johnson to carry Texas’s biggest urban counties. Republicans started to warn about it in 2013, when Obama campaign veterans created a group to find and empower hundreds of thousands of non-White Texans who didn’t vote.One year later, Republicans dominated every statewide race — as they had for 20 years — and made inroads with Hispanic voters. “Blue Texas” became a punchline.Then came Donald Trump. In 2016, after dispatching Sen. Ted Cruz of Texas to win the Republican nomination, Trump defeated Hillary Clinton here by nine percentage points — a smaller margin than any Republican nominee since Bob Dole. It got closer because of Trump’s weakness in the state’s fast-growing cities and suburbs, which optimistic Republicans saw as a fluke. Two years later, Democrats picked up two House seats, sliced away at the GOP’s state legislative majority and came within five points of winning several statewide races, including the one for Cruz’s seat.But picking up House seats and winning statewide office proved to be two different beasts. In 2018, Republicans held on to their statewide offices, despite further suburban attrition thanks to high turnout in conservative East and North Texas, and middling Democratic turnout with Latino voters in the Rio Grande Valley.Clinton carried four of Texas’s five most populous counties, containing the cities of Houston, Dallas, Fort Worth, Austin and San Antonio, and where a total of 3,809,602 votes were cast. But 57 percent of the total statewide vote came from outside those counties. Unlike Arizona, where defeat in the suburbs can close off the GOP’s path to a majority, Texas has millions of rural, White, conservative voters who are alienated from the modern Democratic Party and can overwhelm it with high turnout.2:07 a.m.House callDon Bacon, a Republican, has won in the 2nd District of Nebraska, according to Edison Research.More election results 2:06 a.m.House callStephanie Bice, a Republican, has won in the 5th District of Oklahoma, according to Edison Research.More election results 2:05 a.m.Presidential callDonald Trump has won Texas and its 38 electoral votes, according to Edison Research.More election results Mississippi voters choose new flag design to replace Confederate emblem Return to menuMississippi voters approved a new state flag design with a magnolia flower on a blue background and red and yellow outer stripes — retiring a 126-year-old banner that featured the Confederate battle emblem.About 70 percent of voters were in favor of the new design, according to the Associated Press. The state was the last one to eliminate the symbol of the Confederacy — which many consider analogous with segregation, slavery and racism — from its flag, following a drawn-out effort. Voters had previously chosen to preserve the flag in a statewide referendum in 2001, but renewed calls in the wake of George Floyd’s killing and racial justice protests pushed the measure forward.State lawmakers voted to decommission the flag in June, and then the magnolia design was selected by a nine-person commission and put on the ballot. The choice for voters was “yes” or “no” on the design.The flag has the phrase “In God We Trust” below the state flower, which is encircled with 20 stars representing the order the state joined the United States. There’s also a Choctaw-inspired star to represent Indigenous people.1:35 a.m.Senate callJoni Ernst, a Republican, has won the Senate race in Iowa, according to Edison Research.More election results 1:34 a.m.Presidential callDonald Trump has won Iowa and its six electoral votes, according to Edison Research.More election results 1:24 a.m.House callTroy Nehls, a Republican, has won in the 22nd District of Texas, according to Edison Research.More election results 12:54 a.m.David Weigel: Heading into tonight, two nightmares gripped Democrats: That there would be serious disruption at voting sites, and that the president would declare victory on the way to suing to disqualify ballots. The first scenario didn’t unfold, and the president actually tweeted his prediction of a win, and his desire for late-arriving ballots to not be counted, after Biden had already stepped in front of cameras to say he was likely to win.David Weigel, National reporter covering politics12:45 a.m.Presidential callDonald Trump has won Florida and its 29 electoral votes, according to Edison Research.More election results 12:43 a.m.David Weigel: There’s a rumor going around on Twitter that Fox News has retracted its call of Arizona for Biden and Kelly. That’s not true. The network is basing its early call, which hasn’t been matched by the AP, on the same thing that makes Democrats confident: They didn’t see enough strongly pro-Trump votes coming out on election day, and before that, Biden ran stronger with Republicans than Trump ran with Democrats.David Weigel, National reporter covering politics12:42 a.m.Presidential callJoe Biden is projected to win Minnesota and its 10 electoral votes, according to Edison Research.More election results 12:12 a.m.Presidential callDonald Trump is projected to win Montana and its three electoral votes, according to Edison Research.More election results 12:11 a.m.Presidential callDonald Trump has won Ohio and its 18 electoral votes, according to Edison Research.More election results 12:10 a.m.Presidential callJoe Biden is projected to win Virginia and its 13 electoral votes, according to Edison Research.More election results 11:52 p.m.David Weigel: There are plenty of bright spots for Republicans in House districts that broke for Trump in 2016, but reelected Democrats in 2018. The question: What happens in those places when all the votes are counted? In Illinois, for example, Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee Chair Cheri Bustos (D), who ran 20 points ahead of Hillary Clinton in 2016 and had no serious challenger in 2018, was trailing narrowly after half the votes were counted in her district. Republicans have been losing suburbs by expected margins, but doing better with Election Day rural votes.David Weigel, National reporter covering politics11:40 p.m.Presidential callJoe Biden is projected to win New Hampshire and its four electoral votes, according to Edison Research.More election results 10:55 p.m.Senate callTommy Tuberville, a Republican, has been projected to win the Senate race in Alabama, according to Edison Research.More election results 10:18 p.m.Presidential callJoe Biden is projected to win New Mexico and its five electoral votes, according to Edison Research.More election results 9:54 p.m.Senate callJohn Hickenlooper, a Democrat, has been projected to win the Senate race in Colorado, according to Edison Research.More election results 9:33 p.m.Presidential callDonald Trump is projected to win South Carolina and its 9 electoral votes, according to Edison Research.More election results 9:32 p.m.Presidential callJoe Biden is projected to win Colorado and its 9 electoral votes, according to Edison Research.More election results 9:12 p.m.David Weigel: Ohio continues to show improvement for Biden in suburban and even exurban counties, which at this point in the night are bigger than Trump’s gains in rural areas. In exurban counties that have surpassed their 2016 turnout, Biden is doing far better than Hillary Clinton; he cut Trump’s 17,239-vote margin in Wayne County, near Akron, to a bit less than 10,000 votes. Vinton County, in the Appalachian Valley, is going for Trump by a bigger margin than it did in 2016, but it may cast fewer than 8,000 votes overall. The risk for Biden comes from Election Day GOP votes in places he’s ahead now.David Weigel, National reporter covering politics9:10 p.m.Amber Phillips: It’s early, but there are signs that Democrats could be underperforming with Latino voters. In addition to struggling with the Cuban American vote in the Miami area, Democrats watching a key House race in Texas’s 23rd Congressional District, a vast border district with many Mexican American voters, said they were surprised with how tight that race had become. The Latino vote is one of the most diverse in America, and 2020 may underscore that it’s not at all a demographic group Democrats can take for granted.Amber Phillips, Politics Reporter8:50 p.m.David Weigel: Florida’s Pinellas County tells one of the stories in that state tonight. Biden is running stronger there than Hillary Clinton did four years ago, but the president has added to his raw vote, too. The result’s a close race with a narrow Biden lead, the sort of result that would have won the state for the Democrats four years ago. The party’s problems, like they were in the 2018 midterms, are all about more-conservative Latino voters in Miami-Dade County, and in parts of the Orlando area.David Weigel, National reporter covering politics8:01 p.m.David Weigel: Keep an eye on Delaware County, Ohio, a historically Republican area north of Columbus. In 2016, Hillary Clinton lost it handily, winning just 40,872 total votes. With early ballots counted, Biden has already won 46,562 votes; the president was trailing, running 19,000 votes behind the result he ended up with four years ago. Even a Trump romp in the election day vote could put Biden ahead in one of the few Ohio counties that backed Barry Goldwater in 1964.David Weigel, National reporter covering politics7:09 p.m.David Weigel: It’s dangerous to read too much from the first votes in Kentucky and Indiana, but the fall-off in third-party voting at the presidential level is notable. In Indiana, a Libertarian nominee for governor who opposes the state’s mask mandates is getting more than six times as many votes as the party’s presidential nominee, Jo Jorgensen. In Kentucky, a Libertarian candidate for Senate is getting twice as many votes as all third-party candidates for president combined.David Weigel, National reporter covering politics6:41 p.m.Amber Phillips: Could Georgia be a surprise election night win for Senate Democrats? At least two strategists on both sides working on Senate races, speaking on the condition of anonymity, said there is evidence that Sen. David Perdue (R-Ga.) could lose outright Tuesday night to his Democratic challenger, Jon Ossoff. If Ossoff manages to get a majority of the vote, thanks to high Democratic turnout, that would probably spell doom for Senate Republicans’ majority.Amber Phillips, Politics Reporter6:06 p.m.David Weigel: It’ll be hours before there’s enough exit-poll data to build a serious analysis of the 2020 electorate. But it’s worth watching how voters’ moods have changed since 2018, when views of the economy were positive but the president’s personality and agenda led to Democratic gains. Then, the better voters felt about the economy, the more likely they were to vote for Trump, but those who were worried or felt things were “about the same” broke heavily for Trump.David Weigel, National reporter covering politics