    
'I was very offended that Sen. Harkin would say that,' Ernst said. Iowan GOP Senate candidate Joni Ernst responded on Monday that she was “very offended” by Sen. Tom Harkin’s comments comparing her looks to Taylor Swift.  “I was very offended that Sen. Harkin would say that, I think it’s unfortunate that he and many in their party believe that you can’t be a real woman if you’re conservative and female,” Ernst said to “Fox & Friends.”  She added, ”I believe if my name had been Jon Ernst attached to my résumé, Sen. Harkin would not have said those things.”  ( Also on POLITICO: Harkin: Ernst as pretty as Swift. So what?)  Ernst said Harkin’s remarks reveal that the alleged Republican “war on women” is “phony” and that Democrats should drop the term.  “First, I am a woman and second, I have been to war, I am a combat veteran,” Ernst said. “This is not a war on women and any time Democrats are using the word war they need to do it to honor our service men and women.”  Ernst’s comments come after a video was released on Sunday night where Harkin is shown saying that even if Ernst is “as good looking as Taylor Swift” she is not fit to represent the state of Iowa.  “In this Senate race, I’ve been watching some of these ads,” Harkin said last week. “And there’s sort of this sense that, ‘Well, I hear so much about Joni Ernst. She is really attractive, and she sounds nice.’  “… Well, I got to thinking about that,” he said. “I don’t care if she’s as good looking as Taylor Swift or as nice as Mr. Rogers, but if she votes like [Minnesota Rep.] Michele Bachmann, she’s wrong for the state of Iowa.”  ( WATCH: Driving the Election Day: Iowa)  Harkin’s office released a statement later on Monday, in which the senator said he is “only human” and did not intend to offend Ernst.  “I shouldn’t have said those things, I know that. I regret anytime someone feels offended by what I have said,” the retiring Democrat said in a statement, provided by his spokesperson. “But I am only human and I can make mistakes sometimes in how I say something. I can assure Senator Ernst that in no way did I intend to offend her. In fact, I have complimented her on running a very good campaign.”  Lucy McCalmont contributed to this report Follow @politico  