VideotranscripttranscriptMcConnell on the New SenateMitch McConnell, who will most likely become majority leader in the Senate next year, said the two sides in the Senate would work together but also warned of partisan divisions.AP TELEVISION - AP CLIENTS ONLY
Louisville, Kentucky - November 5, 2014
SOUNDBITE (English) Mitch McConnell, (R) Minority Leader:
“I think what the voters were saying yesterday, well a couple things, number one they are not satisfied with the direction of the administration. But, at the same time, I’ve heard a lot of discussion about disfunction in Washington. There are a lot of people who believe that just because you have a divided government, that doesnt mean you don’t accomplish anything. Earlier today I called the President, I talked to Senator Reid, the Speaker, and Ted Cruz too. I thought you would be interested. All of whom have the view that we ought to see what areas of agreement there are and see if we can make some progress for the country.”
SOUNDBITE (English) Mitch McConnell, (R) Minority Leader:
“The first thing I need to do is to get the Senate back to normal and I think that means working more. I don’t think we’ve had any votes on Friday in anybody’s memory. It means opening the Senate up so that admenments are permitted on both sides and it means occasionally burning the midnight oil to reach a conclusion.”
SOUNDBITE (English) Mitch McConnell, (R) Minority Leader:
“Well, the Senate was the problem not the House. The House passed over three hundred pieces of legislation. Many of them on a bipartisan basis and nothing was done with them in the Senate. The American people have changed the Senate, so I think we have an obligation to change the behavior of the Senate and begin to function again.”
SOUNDBITE (English) Mitch McConnell, (R) Minority Leader:
“The point I’m making is the Democrat who counts is the President of the United States. The Democrats in Congress will support whatever he agrees to do.”Mitch McConnell, who will most likely become majority leader in the Senate next year, said the two sides in the Senate would work together but also warned of partisan divisions.CreditCredit...Todd Heisler/The New York TimesNov. 5, 2014Fresh from his own re-election victory and his party’s powerful showing nationwide, Senator Mitch McConnell on Wednesday pledged to break the stalemate in Washington as newly empowered congressional Republicans moved quickly to demonstrate that they can get things done. “We’re going to pass legislation,” Mr. McConnell said at a news conference in Louisville, Ky. “This gridlock and dysfunction can be ended.”Despite their new majority in the Senate and an expanded one in the House, Republicans face multiple difficulties, not the least of which are internal divisions. But they say they know they have to deliver or face a backlash in 2016.“I think it really becomes important to appear to want to be a governing party rather than a complaining party,” said Senator Roy Blunt of Missouri, a member of the party leadership. “My belief is we have about six months before the American people check that box one way or the other.”Anticipating for months that they would take the Senate and pad their majority in the House, Republicans have been quietly discussing their agenda and approach after regularly accusing Democrats, led by Senator Harry Reid of Nevada, the majority leader, of thwarting their priorities.They say they will focus on balancing the budget, restoring an orderly process for spending bills, revising if not repealing the health care law and enacting a major overhaul of the tax code — ambitious goals, given years of stalemate and discord.Before taking up the issue of immigration, Republicans are likely to see what unilateral action President Obama undertakes, and how the country reacts to it.Senate Republicans also intend to use their control of committees to bring new scrutiny to the White House, federal agencies and Mr. Obama’s expanding use of executive authority. Mr. McConnell, who will succeed Mr. Reid as majority leader when the new Congress convenes in January, has also promised wholesale changes in the way the Senate operates, including a five-day workweek, more floor debate and empowered committee chairmen.VideotranscripttranscriptMitch McConnell’s Path to VictoryThe career of the Kentucky senator expected to become Senate majority leader and his promises to change the Senate.Tk from the victory party - “thank you kentucky” or somesuch”
WHEN THE 114TH CONGRESS IS SWORN IN THIS JANUARY, MITCH MCCONNELL IS EXPECTED TO BE THE SENATE’S NEW LEADER. THE CAREER OF THE KENTUCKY SENATOR AND WHETHER HE’LL HAVE ANY IMPACT ON WASHINGTON’S GRIDLOCK, NOW ON THE NEW YORK TIMES MINUTE.
Scenes of the victory party, mcconnell celebrating (last night) // <SOT: Mitch McConnell, from Primary Victory Speech, 5/20/14>
“Make me the Majority Leader and Kentucky will lead America.”
UNLIKE MANY LIFE-LONG POLITICIANS, THE AMERICAN PRESIDENCY HAS NOT BEEN MITCH MCCONNELL’S AMBITION. 2. SOUNDBITE (English) Mitch McConnell, (R) Minority Leader:
“The first thing I need to do is to get the Senate back to normal and I think that means working more. Maybe a nat pop from louisville - skyline or something
ORIGINALLY FROM LOUISVILLE, HE’S LONG BEEN A STUDENT OF THE SENATE. IN 1964, AT AGE 22, HE INTERNED WITH KENTUCKY SENATOR JOHN SHERMAN COOPER, A MODERATE REPUBLICAN WHO WORKED CLOSELY WITH BOTH JFK AND LBJ. TWENTY YEARS LATER, MR. MCCONNELL WAS ELECTED IN HIS OWN RIGHT.  The scenes from his press conference today - the morning after 
”” ”” 
archival stuff and general scenes  Mcconnell as a young senator
// Archival footage/sound of Mitch when he became senate minority leader. (He became senate minority leader in 2007.) VO
HE QUICKLY ROSE UP THE REPUBLICAN RANKS, AND BECAME MINORITY LEADER IN 2007. THERE, HE SOON USED HIS DEEP KNOWLEDGE OF SENATE RULES TO BLOCK MANY OF PRESIDENT OBAMA’S INITIATIVES.
<SOT: Mitch McConnell 11/4/2010>
“Our top political priority over the next two years should be to deny President Obama a second term.”
SOT: Montage of McConnell Filibustering VO
ACCORDING TO HARRY REID, MCCONNELL HAS ORCHESTRATED 442 FILIBUSTERS, INCLUDING ONE MEMORABLE TIME WHEN HE FILIBUSTERED HIS OWN BILL TO RAISE THE NATIONAL DEBT LIMIT.
NAT: McConnell Filibustering the debt limit bill.
Various of mcconnell in washington over the years
// Obama mocking him at WH correspondents dinner THE APPROACH DID NOT STOP A SECOND OBAMA TERM NOR HAS IT MADE MR. MCCONNELL A BELOVED FIGURE IN WASHINGTON BUT IT HAS NOW GIVEN HIM A SENATE MAJORITY. 
Nat of him celebrating his victory tuesday night
THE QUESTION IS, HOW WILL HE CHANGE HIS LEADERSHIP STYLE?
SOT: Mitch McConnell, from Victory Speech, 11/04/14
“Just because we have a two party system, doesn’t mean we have to be in perpetual conflict.”
MR. MCCONNELL SAYS HE WANTS TO WORK WITH DEMOCRATS ON ISSUES FROM TRADE TO GOVERNMENT SPENDING. SOT: Mitch McConnell, from Victory Speech, 11/04/14
“We do have an obligation to work together on issues where we can agree.”
OR
SOT: Mitch McConnell, 11/5/14 “We ought to see the areas of agreement and see where we can make some progress.”
WHILE COOPERATION ON OTHER ISSUES, LIKE IMMIGRATION AND HEALTH CARE ARE SEEN AS MUCH LESS LIKELY. STAY TUNED.
SOT: Mitch McConnell, from Victory Speech, 11/04/14
Victory Speech:
“It’s time to turn this country around and I will not let you down. THank you so much!”
WH correspondents dinner scene Back to scenes from the victory party - crowd shots etc etc  
//The career of the Kentucky senator expected to become Senate majority leader and his promises to change the Senate.CreditCredit...J. Scott Applewhite/Associated PressRepublicans say they intend to force Mr. Obama to make choices on bills passed by the House that Senate Democrats have been able to keep from his desk, potentially touching off the president’s first extensive use of the veto after six years in office.Some Democrats who have been frustrated by the stalemate in the Senate say they are open to cooperating with Republicans.“Right now, we are helping destroy each other,” said Senator Joe Manchin III, a centrist Democrat from West Virginia. “I would like to think we can work together. I’d like to get my amendments in debate.”In gaining control of the Senate, however, Republicans ousted some of the red-state Democrats most inclined to work with them, such as Senator Mark Pryor of Arkansas, reducing the number of potential Democratic allies.Other tensions may complicate their efforts. Mr. McConnell, with few votes to spare, will have to balance the views of a handful of more moderate Republicans, such as Senator Susan Collins of Maine, with those of unyielding conservatives such as Senator Ted Cruz of Texas, who following the election said Republicans should press their advantage as hard as possible.Mr. McConnell will also have to contend with the competing interests of Mr. Cruz and at least two other Republican senators expected to run for president — Rand Paul of Kentucky and Marco Rubio of Florida — and those of senators up for re-election in 2016 in swing states like Illinois, New Hampshire, Pennsylvania and Wisconsin.As for legislation, the party’s leaders in Congress are eying five major priorities:ENERGY Approving the Keystone XL oil pipeline from Canada could be fertile ground for agreement with Democrats who have differed with the White House on the issue. Combining the pipeline with new energy exports, expanded exploration and added efficiency could result in a bipartisan consensus on energy policy.On a conference call last week, Speaker John A. Boehner assured his members that he was “prepared to move quickly, along with Mitch McConnell, to make clear that the new Congress will be about jobs and the economy,” according to an official familiar with the speaker’s remarks.ImageCredit...Jabin Botsford/The New York Times“I’m talking about bills to green-light construction of the Keystone pipeline and increase exports of American-made liquefied natural gas; to restore the 40-hour workweek for American workers that was undone by Obamacare; to encourage American employers to hire more of our veterans,” Mr. Boehner said, according to the official.BUDGET AND SPENDING Republican leaders in both the House and Senate say that reaching a deal on a budget will be crucial not only to prove that they can do it, but also to allow conservatives to put their imprint on a nonbinding fiscal plan.Senator Jeff Sessions, the conservative Alabama Republican who will lead the Budget Committee, has had his staff looking at federal spending for months to find places to cut in hopes of proposing a budget that would be balanced in as little as a decade. But despite wide sentiment among Republicans for cuts, a divide exists within the party.Some Republicans would like to reverse a series of Pentagon spending constraints put in place through earlier budget deals with Democrats, arguing that the military is being strained at a time when it is being required to fight the continuing threat of Islamic terrorism in the Middle East. Mr. Sessions has expressed reservations about easing the spending limits on the Pentagon, and doing so would make balancing the budget harder and require even more to be cut from politically sensitive social programs.But reaching a budget deal is also essential to putting in place a set of procedural shortcuts that would allow Republicans to force through changes in the health care law and a tax package on a simple majority vote, avoiding the threat of a Democratic filibuster.If they can enact a budget, Republicans hope to return to reviewing what traditionally have been 12 separate annual spending bills and reinvigorating a process that has all but collapsed by putting the bills on the floor and allowing senators to amend them.In March, for the first time since Mr. Obama took office, Republicans will also have to find a way to pass an increase in the debt limit as the majority party — a difficult task given that the debt limit has become such a lightning rod for conservatives who object to any increase in federal borrowing power. Mr. McConnell suggested on Wednesday that Republicans would address the debt limit in the budget.TAXES A sweeping overhaul of the entire tax code is another top priority for the new majority, one that at least in theory has some Democratic support. And much of the spadework has already been done — at the Treasury Department, the House Ways and Means Committee, which is likely to be led by Paul D. Ryan, Republican of Wisconsin, and the Senate Finance Committee, which will now have Senator Orrin G. Hatch, Republican of Utah, as its chairman. Mr. Hatch will replace Senator Ron Wyden of Oregon, a Democrat who is also a tax overhaul advocate and could be instrumental in the debate.The key to a deal will be the Obama administration. Treasury officials have already developed a detailed plan to simplify the corporate tax code and lower the corporate tax rate to 28 percent from 35 percent. Republicans want it closer to 25 percent and have repeatedly said any tax overhaul must include reductions in the individual tax rates, which apply to many small businesses. It looms as a difficult negotiation, but it is possible Mr. Obama could take a page from President Ronald Reagan, who worked with Democrats to pass the 1986 Tax Reform Act.HEALTH CARE It is a delicate topic, but top Republicans acknowledge they cannot repeal the Affordable Care Act, particularly with Mr. Obama able to veto any such effort. They will no doubt take some repeal votes, but their initial focus could be on smaller changes.For instance, a medical device tax used to pay for the law is opposed by lawmakers from both parties who represent manufacturers, and a repeal of the tax could pass Congress. And another group of Republicans and Democrats has also called for returning the health law’s definition of full-time work to 40 hours from 30, arguing that the lower limit is forcing too many people out of work because of employers’ efforts to comply with the law. Mr. Boehner singled out that measure as one that he would like to see advance.TRADE This is one area where the Obama administration and Republicans have a good chance of finding common ground. Republicans are enthusiastic advocates of increased trade, and the president is eager to get the added authority to negotiate new trade deals and win approval of a trade agreement with nations on the Pacific Rim. The main obstacle could be Democrats, many of whom are skeptical of trade deals that labor warns could cost American jobs. But a significant segment of Democrats back trade expansion, and a deal could probably be found if both congressional Republicans and the White House both press for it.Over all, those on both sides of the aisle agree that the change in Senate control presents a chance to curb the gridlock that has consumed Congress, but it also holds peril for Republicans if they fail to deliver.“They have a golden opportunity,” Mr. Manchin, the Democratic senator from West Virginia, said. “If they get that and fail miserably, it is very bleak for them in 2016.”