    On the chopping block: A slice of first lady Michelle Obama’s school nutrition bid and a key provision of President Barack Obama’s financial overhaul law.  Saved by the threat of a shutdown: the EPA’s budget and energy rules.  These are among the trade-offs embedded in the sprawling $1.1 trillion spending bill Democratic and Republican negotiators unveiled late Tuesday in an effort to keep the federal government functioning past Thursday.  The Boy Scouts won a special fix for their pensions, while Americans living abroad would get relief from new Obamacare rules on health insurance. Sen. Susan Collins (R-Maine) worked in provisions essentially hiking the number of hours from 70 to 82 that truckers would be able drive each week. The wealthy could soon be able to give far more cash to political parties.  ( Also on POLITICO: Budget bill shows GOP's new muscle)  Democrats won new limits on federal contracts for certain companies moving their tax addresses abroad, while Republicans secured language that would block any rules aimed at protecting small birds, the greater and Gunnison sage grouses.  Republicans will have to wait a little longer, until they officially take control of the Senate, to try to pass cuts directly related to Obamacare: Funding is flat in the spending bill. And funding for the Environmental Protection Agency comes in at more than the White House asked for.  “There are a lot of things in it,” acknowledged Sen. Dick Durbin, the Democratic whip.  Others were less tactful.  “It’s disgraceful,” Republican Sen. John McCain said, speaking before the bill came out, predicting it would be “jammed full of shit.”  ( Also on POLITICO: Coburn threatens spending deal over defense bill)  The bill is supposed to set the annual budgets for programs ranging from the Justice Department to NASA to the Food and Drug Administration. But it’s also a vehicle for all sorts of provisions that can ride on its coattails — and otherwise might be vetoed. That’s because lawmakers, and the president, are determined to avoid a government shutdown, which would begin after current federal funding expires Thursday.  But party leaders were running short of the votes to get the job done because of the usual culprits: a “Hell No” faction of House Republicans. Some were balking at the plan because it wouldn’t block Obama’s recent immigration order. Others don’t like the overall spending levels. Still others object to being asked to vote on a bill they’ve barely even seen.  So leaders searching for votes looked elsewhere from lawmakers still hoping to get their favorite initiatives across the finish line before Congress quits for the year. Lawmakers used to rely on earmarks to grease the legislative skids, but those have been banned for several years, so they instead to look to their colleagues’ favorite causes.  The result is a behemoth measure that touches everything from union pensions to defense procurement, resulting in one of the most consequential bills to come before Congress this year.  ( Also on POLITICO: Warren to Dems: Kill the bill)  It also amounts to a frantic policy scavenger hunt for K Streeters, the administration, even rank-and-file members of Congress — all eager to discover what did and didn’t make it into the bill.  D.C. delegate Eleanor Holmes Norton readily admitted Tuesday afternoon that she had no idea whether the bill would include Republican demands to block the District’s recent referendum to legalize marijuana. (It does.)  “I don’t even know which Democrats are in the room,” Norton lamented, noting the referendum was approved by the District with 70 percent of the vote. “We want them to leave what the voters have done alone,” she said.  Sen. Mike Crapo (R-Idaho) said he was anxious to learn whether the bill would include additional funding for counties in his state with lots of federal land exempt from taxation.  Ohio Republican Sen. Rob Portman said he was concerned about getting provisions important to a nuclear power plant in his state. Sen. Mark Begich (D-Alaska) said he believed he had gotten provisions included that would ensure veterans benefits aren’t interrupted should the government shut down again.  ( Also on POLITICO: Reid's new mission: Blocking 'crazy stuff')  Other lawmakers were left fuming over the process, complaining they had no idea what is in the bill.  “Don’t you think we ought to be able to read it?” said Sen. Tom Coburn (R-Okla.). “Shouldn’t we know what we’re voting on?”  Sen. Richard Shelby, who, as the top Republican on the appropriations committee was one of the architects of the plan, defended the bill.  “I don’t think it’s a Christmas tree,” he said. “Appropriations bills always have a lot of things in them because there’s a trillion dollars — how to spend it, how not to spend it.”  Lawmakers finally released the bill late in the evening, and Washington’s policy scavenger hunt was on.  In: A provision that would bar the EPA from regulating methane emissions from livestock production. Methane is a potent greenhouse gas and livestock, which release methane in their flatulence, account for about 10 percent of U.S. emissions, according to the EPA. Out: Any poultry processed in China that might have wound up in school lunches. The Agriculture Department would be banned from using it.  Retiring Rep. George Miller, a close ally of House Democratic leader Nancy Pelosi, secured pension-related provisions running more than 160 pages sought by many unions. Banks won a rollback of a section of the 2010 Dodd-Frank law related to derivatives trading. The defense industry secured new funding for F-35s fighters the Pentagon didn’t even ask for, while anti-environmental groups won provisions targeting the administration’s climate change policies. States, meanwhile, would get the option to let schools skip out on rules requiring serving whole grains — a blow to the first lady’s child nutrition efforts.  Even with all the goodies, it’s still not clear whether lawmakers have the votes to pass the plan. Sen. Elizabeth Warren (D-Mass.) blasted the changes to Dodd-Frank. “We all need to stand and fight this giveaway to the most powerful banks in this country,” she said. “These are the same banks that nearly broke the economy in 2008 and destroyed millions of jobs.”  Rep. Chris Van Hollen, the top Democrat on the House Budget Committee, said he would oppose the plan in part because of changes that would allow the wealthy to donate up to $777,600, from the current $97,200, to the national party committees.  The administration, meanwhile, said it could abide by the school-lunch changes.  “In light of the effects to roll back school nutrition standards, we consider the minor adjustments to the standards a real win for kids and parents,” Sam Kass, a senior adviser on nutrition, said in a statement.  Politico Pro staff contributed to this report. 
