  Two New York City police officers were shot and killed in Brooklyn on Saturday.
The story is developing. It's possible that some early reports are wrong, and the known facts could change substantially in the coming hours, days, and weeks. Here's what we know so far, what's being reported but isn't yet confirmed, and how key officials in New York and elsewhere are reacting.
What we know                                NYPD Commissioner William Bratton speaks at a press conference. (Andrew Burton / Getty Images News)
Two uniformed New York City Police Department (NYPD) officers were shot and killed as they sat in a marked police car in Brooklyn on Saturday afternoon, NYPD Commissioner William Bratton announced at a press conference following the shooting. The two officers killed were Wenjian Liu and Rafael Ramos, according to Bratton.
Peace, calm and decency toward each other, in their memories. pic.twitter.com/NpqJV1JgUW
— Josh Greenman (@joshgreenman) December 21, 2014 The suspected gunman is 28-year-old Ismaaiyl Brinsley, Bratton said. His last known address is in Georgia. The suspected gunman died from a self-inflicted gunshot wound. After the shooting, he reportedly fled to a nearby subway station before he shot himself.
Brinsley allegedly shot his ex-girlfriend in Baltimore County on Saturday morning, according to Bratton. She is expected to survive, the Baltimore Sun reported.
Suspect in killing of #NYPD officers is also suspect in this a.m.'s non-fatal shooting in #OwingsMills. ^EA
— BACO Public Safety (@BACOPoliceFire) December 21, 2014 Brinsley posted threatening messages on Instagram prior to the shooting that indicated he was acting in retribution for the police killings of Eric Garner and Michael Brown, according to the Washington Post. The New York Post posted screenshots of the Instagram page: (Instagram via New York Post)
(Instagram via New York Post)
Brinsley was arrested 19 times — 15 times in Georgia, four in Ohio — in the past, the Washington Post reported. Police described him as a highly troubled man whom his own mother feared.
Brinsley didn't attend protests against police brutality, but he was writing a screenplay about shootings involving his friends, a friend interviewed by investigators told the Daily Beast.
Liu, one of the officers killed, was recently married, according to Bratton. Ramos, the other officer, leaves behind a wife and 13-year-old son; he was a former school resource officer.
NYPD officer Liu was recently married. His partner, Officer Ramos, leaves behind his wife & 13-year-old son.
— Sheldon Dutes (@SheldonDutes4NY) December 21, 2014 Officer Liu, recently married. Officer Ramos, former school resource officer. - NYC Police Commissioner Bratton
— Torie Wells (@CBS6Torie) December 21, 2014  Baltimore County Police and Fire officials said they called an NYPD precinct to warn them about threatening Instagram posts and their origin in Brooklyn at 2:10 p.m., about 40 minutes before the shooting. But they didn't fax the information to the NYPD until 2:50 p.m., around the time of the shooting. What we don't know
Police are still investigating the shooting, including the suspected gunman's motive for allegedly shooting his ex-girlfriend and two police officers. It's possible more details could come to light in the next few days and weeks.  How people reacted
Mayor Bill de Blasio, speaking at a press conference, called the shooting a heinous attack.
When police officers are murdered, it tears at the foundation of our society. This heinous attack was an attack on our entire city.
— Bill de Blasio (@BilldeBlasio) December 21, 2014 De Blasio cautioned that, in the future, the public should report any warnings of violence posted on the internet to the proper authorities.
New York Governor Andrew Cuomo called the shooting "a deplorable act of violence" in a statement. "Tonight, we all come together to mourn the loss of these brave souls," he said.
President Barack Obama offered prayer and sympathy in a statement.                                 Other NYPD precincts showed their support.
Tonight we mourn the loss of our brothers as we continue to patrol this city with pride, courage and honor. We do it in their memory.
— NYPD 67th Precinct (@NYPD67Pct) December 20, 2014 Patrick Lynch, president of the NYPD union Patrolmen's Benevolent Association, said there was "blood on the hands" of Mayor de Blasio and protesters, particularly "those that incited violence on the street under the guise of protest that tried to tear down what New York City police officers did everyday."  The Patrolmen's Benevolent Association website put up a different homepage in remembrance of the killed officers.                                 Reverend Al Sharpton released a statement condemning the killing.
I am outraged at the killing of 2 police officers in Brooklyn. That is why we stress non violence as the only way to fight for justice.
— Reverend Al Sharpton (@TheRevAl) December 20, 2014 The FBI's New York office tweeted its condolences.
Our deepest condolences to @NYPDnews for the loss of two of their officers in the 79th precinct earlier today
— FBI New York (@NewYorkFBI) December 20, 2014 Los Angeles Police Chief Charlie Beck voiced support for the NYPD and the fallen officers.
#LAPD will wear black mourning band in honor of our fallen brothers. #NYPD @CommissBratton @NYPDnews pic.twitter.com/cuafUJjrhu
— Chief Charlie Beck (@LAPDChiefBeck) December 20, 2014 The family of Michael Brown released a statement, through family lawyer Benjamin Crump, also condemning the shooting. "We reject any kind of violence directed toward members of law enforcement," the statement said. "It cannot be tolerated. We must work together to bring peace to our communities."
Leaders of the protests in Ferguson, Missouri, decried the killings as well.
I do not condone the killing of the two NYPD officers today. I do not condone the killing of unarmed black people. I do not condone killing.
— deray mckesson (@deray) December 20, 2014 Update: The original headline said the shooting was a "possible revenge killing for Eric Garner's death." That headline was premature. Authorities have still not given a motive.  