Credit...Richard Perry/The New York TimesDec. 22, 2014Mayor Bill de Blasio, publicly silent and largely out of view the day after two police officers were killed in Brooklyn, re-emerged on Monday, straining to demonstrate leadership over a fractured city.Mr. de Blasio visited the families of the slain officers, spoke to a nonprofit police group and, for the first time since the shooting, took several questions at a news conference at Police Headquarters.And at every stop, the Democratic mayor of New York, who ascended to office with a pledge to reshape the Police Department, had company: Police Commissioner William J. Bratton — once renowned for helping turn back crime in the 1990s, now the essential bridge between the mayor and a department that distrusts him more deeply than ever.Mr. de Blasio, at the helm of a city still raw from weeks of protests after a grand jury’s decision, called for a suspension of the demonstrations, asked the public to report any possible threats against police officers and urged New Yorkers to thank and console officers in mourning, even as detectives continued to trace the movements and communications of the gunman before the attack on Saturday.Yet on a day of somber reflection from the mayor, who spoke haltingly at times, seeming to search for the right words, he grew impassioned as he forcefully defended the rights of peaceful protesters and wondered, rhetorically, if the news media would “keep dividing us.”Mr. Bratton stepped in repeatedly to buttress his boss. “Do some officers not like this mayor?” he said. “Guaranteed.”He added, to laughter, that “amazingly, some don’t” like their commissioner, either.Mr. Bratton said union leaders — who led an extraordinary protest against the mayor on Saturday, turning their backs to him as he and Mr. Bratton walked past at the hospital — had agreed to a “standing down” of heated public comments until after the funerals. (The first funeral, for Officer Rafael Ramos, will be on Saturday, Mr. Bratton said.)ImageCredit...Carlo Allegri/ReutersBut even as the mayor said it was time to “put aside political debates, put aside protests,” it was clear that he remained ensnared in the signal challenge of his tenure so far, with few clear lifelines.Since Mr. Bratton’s appointment a year ago, his responsibilities have been extensive. He was charged with keeping crime low while overseeing sweeping changes in police strategy, which have already included retraining programs and a less stringent approach to marijuana possession.The challenge, always complicated, has become increasingly fraught.“If a bridge is going to be formed, Bill Bratton has to be the foundation,” said Vincent E. Henry, a former city police officer and the director of Long Island University’s Homeland Security Management Institute. “I do not envy him.”For decades, the relationship between mayor and police commissioner has been perhaps the most scrutinized in city government. Emergencies arrive daily. Trust waxes and wanes. Egos predominate, as they did during Mr. Bratton’s first, abbreviated tour in New York, under Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani, a Republican.In separate, wide-ranging interviews conducted the day before the shootings, Mr. de Blasio and Mr. Bratton described their municipal marriage as an easy fit, despite preconceptions to the contrary.Mr. Bratton, the mayor noted, earned a reputation as a reformer as the police leader in Los Angeles and had been widely expected to serve under Mark Green, a liberal Democrat, if he won the New York mayoral race in 2001.“A lot of people kind of just stopped their thinking about him after ’96,” Mr. de Blasio said.And Mr. de Blasio, the commissioner said, was “not as dogmatic as people, I think, think he is around issues of progressiveness; on policing, he’s very pragmatic.”On Monday, the two emphasized the hundreds of millions of dollars the mayor had directed toward the department in recent months.VideotranscripttranscriptDe Blasio on Slain Police OfficersMayor Bill de Blasio of New York spoke about the killing of two police officers on Saturday at the Police Athletic League’s December luncheon on Monday.We would certainly never forget the sacrifice of Officer Ramos and Officer Liu who stood for all that is good in this society and we have to understand that an attack on them is an attack on all of us. It was an attack on our democracy, it was an attack on our values, it was an attack on every single New Yorker and we have to see it as such.
//
There are things that unite us, there are things that we hold dear to us, as New Yorkers, as Americans.Mayor Bill de Blasio of New York spoke about the killing of two police officers on Saturday at the Police Athletic League’s December luncheon on Monday.CreditCredit...Kevin Hagen/Reuters“Actions speak louder than words,” Mr. de Blasio said.In an interview on NBC, Mr. Bratton rejected the suggestion that the mayor had contributed to any increased threats against officers, as unions have argued.But he conceded that the shootings appeared to be a “direct spinoff of this issue” of the recent protests. The gunman, Ismaaiyl Brinsley, had alluded to the cases of Michael Brown and Eric Garner on social media, the police said.At the same time, officials cautioned that the gunman had a history of mental health problems.Mr. de Blasio took care on Monday to describe the gunman as a “very troubled individual,” urging vigilance among New Yorkers who might encounter threats against officers.For much of the year, the mayor — who as a candidate criticized the police strategy of stopping, questioning and often frisking people on the street — has been engaged in a protracted struggle with the Patrolmen’s Benevolent Association, the city’s largest police union. Administration officials have attributed much of the unrest to a contract dispute.Police unions, as Mr. Bratton observed, have long clashed with mayors. “It is what it is,” he said. “This is New York City.”But the dynamic laid bare since the shootings, and even before, has been different, current and former officers said.Many were particularly bothered by Mr. de Blasio’s comments after the grand jury declined to bring charges against a white police officer in the case of Mr. Garner, an unarmed black man who died after a chokehold.Addressing a national reckoning over law enforcement and race, particularly amid protests in Ferguson, Mo., Mr. de Blasio said he had trained his biracial son, Dante, to “take special care” in any police encounter.ImageCredit...Seth Wenig/Associated PressUnion leaders said the mayor had sent a demoralizing message to his force: that officers were to be feared. Mr. Bratton defended the remarks.In fact, the mayor has repeatedly praised officers.On Monday, Mr. de Blasio defended his handling of the demonstrations, adding that his campaign pledge to bond residents and officers was as pressing as ever.“It’s not going to be the kind of city it was meant to be,” he said, “if there is a division between our police and our community.”He also criticized the news media for giving what he deemed as disproportionate attention to vitriolic or violent protesters.An overwhelming majority, he said, “are good and decent people who do not say negative things, racist things, nasty things to police.”“What are you guys going to do?” he asked reporters. “Are you going to keep dividing us?”Mr. de Blasio’s position since the Garner decision has hardly pleased all police critics. Some lamented his calls on Monday to suspend protests and vowed to demonstrate. And many civil rights advocates have expressed disappointment in the mayor’s defense of “broken windows” policing, the aggressive enforcement of low-level offenses, which Mr. Bratton has championed.For now, it seems, any public debate over police tactics will wait, at least at City Hall.Mr. de Blasio emphasized on Monday that the focus should be on the victims’ families, at turns invoking his own.He and his wife, Chirlane McCray, thought of their own children, he said, as they spoke to Officer Ramos’s.As a teenager, the mayor told the family, he had also lost his father.