Politics|In Move Toward Campaign, Christie Creates PAC and Hires Staffhttps://www.nytimes.com/2015/01/26/us/politics/in-a-move-toward-a-campaign-chris-christie-plans-to-create-a-pac.htmlCredit...Jabin Botsford/The New York TimesJan. 26, 2015Gov. Chris Christie on Monday will make his most decisive moves yet toward a presidential run by creating a political action committee, hiring eight experienced campaign aides and outlining plans for a spree of fund-raising events across the country.Mr. Christie’s PAC, to be called “Leadership Matters For America,” will allow the New Jersey governor to raise and spend the money necessary to woo Republicans across the country over the next year. It will employ several of his closest political advisers and aides, said a person briefed on the plans.The aides will also serve as a skeletal campaign-staff-in-waiting. He is not expected to make a final decision until spring.The actions highlight how far Mr. Christie has journeyed, politically, since last year, when a scandal over traffic on the George Washington Bridge left many doubting his future as a presidential candidate. The investigations into the matter continue, but his allies argue that he has moved on and can now mount a vigorous bid for the presidency.The PAC’s finance chairman will be Ray Washburne, former chairman of the Republican National Committee; its senior advisers will be Phil Cox, former executive director of the Republican Governors Association, and Mike DuHaime, a top strategist on Mr. Christie’s two successful campaigns for governor; and the director of finance will be Cam Henderson, a former deputy chief of staff for the national committee. The PAC will also employ operatives in early-nominating states: In New Hampshire, Matt Mowers, a former Christie aide and former official with the state’s Republican Party, and in Iowa, Phil Valenziano, a former aide to the governor there, Terry E. Branstad.Mr. Christie has trips planned to Iowa, Illinois, New Hampshire and California in the next few weeks as he ramps up his political travel.