    Obama implored Congress to vote on gun legislation in the State of the Union. CHICAGO — For four years, President Barack Obama avoided talking about guns.  Then the Newtown shooting forced gun control legislation to the top of his agenda — but he still avoided talking about gun violence that has racked his hometown of Chicago.  But the killing of Hadiya Pendleton drew him back here in a way he could no longer avoid.  Friday afternoon, Obama will return to the area he used to represent in the state Senate, and the neighborhood where the 15-year-old was gunned down by gun violence just a week after performing at his Inauguration. Even though his speech will focus on some of the policies aimed at helping the middle class and poor that he laid out in his State of the Union address Tuesday, according to a White House official said, he’ll use the chance to acknowledge violence here and across the country.  Complicating things further as he approaches the topic: The explosion of gun violence has come under the mayoralty of Rahm Emanuel, Obama’s former chief of staff. And that’s despite tough gun laws in the city — a contrast that’s fed arguments from gun control opponents that none of the laws the president’s pushing on a national level would do much to solve the problem.  Gun violence is a familiar topic to Obama — he launched his career as a community organizer and spent seven years as a local elected official representing some of the toughest neighborhoods of Chicago. And though he hasn’t spent much time back here since moving to the White House, the city is still home for the president. But conscious of upsetting pro-gun groups and of appearing to undermine Emanuel, he’s made only a few passing mentions over the past year about Chicago street violence — which included 506 murders last year.  Unlike former presidents, Obama can’t deny that he has a deep understanding of the cycle of poverty, drugs and guns that plagues neighborhoods of cities like Chicago, said the Rev. Jesse Jackson, who had been calling for Obama to return home since soon after Pendleton was killed on Jan. 29.  “He knows the problems; he’s seen them; and this perfect storm of events means he’s coming home to talk about them,” Jackson said. “Because he knows, he can help illuminate the urban crisis and call out for real action.”  Emanuel discussed the visit in similar terms earlier in the week.  “Given that the lion’s share of both the perpetrators and the victims are young African-American men,” Emanuel asked, “who better to have that discussion than the president of the United States, who has repeatedly talked about fathering and the role of fathering?”  Obama’s most forceful moment of his State of the Union address Tuesday was when he implored Congress to vote on gun legislation. The victims “deserve a vote,” he said in a refrain that drew a standing ovation as he mentioned Pendleton, former Rep. Gabrielle Giffords (D-Ariz.) and other victims of gun violence. Pendleton’s parents joined first lady Michelle Obama in the chamber for the speech a few days after she had traveled to Chicago with Education Secretary Arne Duncan and senior adviser Valerie Jarrett for the 15-year-old’s memorial service. Obama’s attention to guns in his address Tuesday came after he vowed, in the aftermath of the Newtown shooting, to use the full power of his office to fight gun violence. The Chicago trip is the third and final stop in his post-State of the Union road campaign — but unlike his North Carolina stop Wednesday and his Georgia stop Thursday, which focused on his manufacturing and education proposals, Obama’s using the end of the week to push for an idea that elicits deep divisions, even within his own party.  He’s doing it back in a city where he struggled with addressing gun violence himself.  Obama wrote about seeing kids shoot kids on the streets of the South Side in his first memoir, “Dreams From My Father,” — a theme he later picked up in a 2007 speech he delivered in Anacostia, a neighborhood in Washington, where he spoke of inner-city poverty in personal terms.  As a state senator, Obama supported banning the sale of semi-automatic weapons and restricting the sale of guns, sponsoring one bill that would have limited people to one gun purchase each month. But he also drew opposition from pro-gun control groups for missing a late 1999 vote on an anti-crime bill after daughter Malia, then 18 months, fell ill during his annual Christmas vacation to Hawaii. He was in the midst of challenging Rep. Bobby Rush in the 2000 Democratic primary, and his missed vote was later seen as a factor that contributed to the loss, which was at the time thought by some to have been career-ending.  As much as Chicagoans active in efforts to combat gun violence are eager to hear him address the topic, they also want him to go further, into the broader issues of unemployment and low-quality education, which spark violence.  “We’re hoping that the president talks about dealing with the gun control and gun safety issues but also the underlying issues that lead to gun violence,” said Cathy Cohen, a University of Chicago political science professor who is also the founder of the Black Youth Project, an advocacy group based in the president’s neighborhood.  Cohen doesn’t fault Obama for staying away from talking about guns and the problems plaguing inner cities during his presidential campaigns and first term. “He was very concerned with making sure that people understood that he was running for president of the United States and would not be especially beholden to the black community in particular,” she said. “Now, in a second term, knowing he will never run for office again, he has the freedom to provide the moral leadership on questions of race and poverty that the country needs now, not only in Chicago but in urban areas across the country,” she added.  Though Obama’s visit is being publicly hailed, there’s also been some grousing within the Chicago political world that the president’s trip is a jab at Emanuel, his police superintendent and other local officials who have been unable to pull the city out of its emergency state.  Chicago Sun-Times columnist Lynn Sweet wrote earlier this week of a “minus … a big one” of Obama’s visit, which is that it highlights “Emanuel’s inability to get a handle on the soaring murder rate.”  The mayor hasn’t addressed that tension and has instead welcomed Obama. “I don’t think there’s anybody better than the president of the United States to also have a conversation of how we get our young men who have in the past been the victims and also the perpetrators … into a real conversation of mentors, moral anchoring, a better sense of who they are and their potential,” Emanuel said Monday.  Aisha Truss-Miller, the young Chicago woman who started a petition urging Obama to visit the city after Pendleton’s death — and drew 45,000 signatures before the White House announced the trip on Sunday — described the president’s visit as a “grand gesture” but one she’s not sure will lead to much more.  “If the discussion is particularly around gun control and what he’s been saying for a while, it’s not getting at everything happening in Chicago,” said Truss-Miller, who graduated from Hyde Park Academy and whose aunt lives across the street from the school. A 17-year-old cousin, Leonard Truss, was killed last year by gun violence blocks from the school and from where Pendleton was killed.  Though her expectations are low, she’s hopeful Obama will go further. “If he’s going to speak about the generational trauma; the root causes; the marginalized communities of young black and Latino people; the lack of resources for those communities; and how young people crowd up within gangs, cliques and sects, then I’ll think it was more than a gesture,” she said.  “He has the heart of a community organizer, but he’s in the political arena right now … that limits what he can say,” Truss-Miller added. 
