WASHINGTON — The problem isn't that President Obama and Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu don't get along, although they don't. The problem spotlighted in the Capitol on Tuesday is that they fundamentally disagree on whether an emerging nuclear deal with Iran would make the world safer or more dangerous.The personal rift could be papered over or ultimately resolved when one leader or both leaves office.The substantive divide, detailed by Netanyahu in a fiery appearance before a joint meeting of Congress, seems unbridgeable — and it could be headed to an explosive showdown within weeks.The nuclear deal being negotiated in Geneva "doesn't block Iran's path to the bomb; it paves Iran's path to the bomb," the Israeli prime minister declared. "So why would anyone make this deal?"It was an extraordinary and unprecedented scene: The leader of a close ally, given Congress' most prominent platform and using it to denounce a major foreign policy initiative of the American president. He depicted the Obama administration's approach to Iran as naive and unwise.He received thunderous applause and a series of standing ovations from those in the ornate House chamber.But the scene also was notable for who wasn't there. Vice President Biden conveniently was traveling abroad; his seat on the dais was taken by Utah Sen. Orrin Hatch, the Senate's president pro tempore. Secretary of State John Kerry was in Geneva, negotiating with the Iranians. Dozens of congressional Democrats boycotted, ranging from rising star Massachusetts Sen. Elizabeth Warren to South Carolina Rep. Jim Clyburn, a member of the House leadership.And as Netanyahu was speaking, Obama just happened to be convening a video conference with British Prime Minister David Cameron, French President Francois Hollande, German Chancellor Angela Merkel and other European leaders to discuss the crisis in Ukraine — an implicit display of presidential power and prerogative.White House officials put the odds of reaching a deal with Iran at no better than 50-50, and the talks face a deadline by the end of the month. But if there is a deal, Netanyahu has succeeded in increasing the difficulty Obama will face in selling it to a Congress now under unified Republican control.Netanyahu didn't unveil intelligence details of the negotiations, despite fears expressed by Obama and others that he might do so. But in discussing public reports on the talks — "You can Google it," he said — he decried provisions that reportedly would allow Iran to retain some of the centrifuges used to make fuel and the accord's 10-year framework.Later, at the White House, Obama told reporters he hadn't seen the speech but had read a transcript of Netanyahu's remarks, which he dismissed as nothing new. "Keep in mind that when we came to the interim deal, Prime Minister Netanyahu made almost the precise same speech about how dangerous that deal was going to be. And yet over a year later, even Israeli intelligence officers and in some members of the Israeli government have acknowledged that in fact it has kept Iran from further pursuing nuclear program," the president said.He defended a negotiated accord was the best course to prevent Iran from obtaining a nuclear weapon: "Nothing else comes close. Sanctions won't do it. Military action would not be as successful as the deal that we have put forward."At the Capitol, Netanyahu's arrival for an appearance that stretched for almost an hour was evocative of a presidential State of the Union Address. The prime minister, who faces an election in Israel in two weeks, was announced on to the floor and besieged by well-wishes as he slowly made his way down the aisle.He opened with a shout-out to Senate Minority Leader Harry Reid, D-Nev., for being "back on his feet" after an accident. He flattered Congress as "the most important legislative body in the world." He thanked Obama for "all he has done for Israel" before he laid out his objections to Obama's policies. He quoted Ernest Hemingway and Robert Frost.Near the end, he recalled the lessons of the Holocaust and introduced survivor Elie Wiesel, winner of the Nobel Peace Prize, in the visitors' gallery.It was like a State of the Union Address in another way as well, in the partisan reception it received — with potential consequences down the road. When he called the emerging negotiation "a very bad deal," many Republicans stood and cheered; many Democrats sat on their hands.