It’s like the first line of a bad joke: “Six Tempe police officers go into a Starbucks …”And the punchline is even worse.An unwise decision by a single barista in a single coffee shop on a single day winds up as a triple, venti, double-shot, non-fat, caramel macchiato campaign for a national boycott.It’s time to dump the #DumpStarbucks hashtag, which never should have existed in the first place.The trouble began when six Tempe police officers gathered at a Starbucks at Scottsdale and McKellips roads for a pre-shift coffee on July 4.A barista at the shop told them that a customer “did not feel safe” around so many officers. According to the police the barista politely asked them to move out of the customers line of sight or to leave.A treatment all too common?They left.And took to Twitter.The Tempe Officers Association tweeted in part: "This treatment of public safety workers could not be more disheartening. While the barista was polite, making such a request at all was offensive. Unfortunately, such treatment has become all too common in 2019.”I’m not sure what the officers mean by “such treatment has become all too common.”After they regularly being asked to leave restaurants or other establishments? Was there trouble at other Starbucks? Other businesses? Are officers being treated any more rudely by the public than has occurred in the past? Where on a scale of 1 to 10 would being asked to move or leave a Starbucks by a polite barista fall?Taking their complaints online got the reaction the Tempe officers were hoping for, I’d guess.On a slow news holiday weekend the incident was picked up all over the country and suddenly, over this one bad decision by a single barista, there was a call for a national boycott.The officers could have handled things differently. They could have contacted the manager of the Starbucks or corporate offices and reported what happened. They would have received the same response they received after news of the event hit Twitter.But that's how it is these days, where every incident in everyone's life is played out on social media.Starbucks apologizes. Fox News overreactsStarbucks executive vice president Rossann Williams issued an apology, saying the employee’s behavior was “completely unacceptable.”Saying as well the officers should have been "welcomed and treated with dignity and the utmost respect by our partners (employees)."And saying, "On behalf of Starbucks, I want to sincerely apologize to you all for the experience that six of your officers had in our store on July 4.”The trolls on places like Fox News and other sites jumped on the #DumpStarbucks bandwagon.Although, I don’t recall any of these same individuals calling for a boycott of Starbucks after an employee in Philadelphia called police officers on two young black men who were waiting for a business associate. Or if they chastised the police who arrested those men.Starbucks apologized to the men and settled with them.That incident lead to a nationwide training session for the company. Perhaps the incident in Tempe will do the same.Can we all just take a breath?In the meantime, Sgt. Rob Ferraro, president of the Tempe Officers Association, issued a statement over the weekend saying, "We would like to thank the public for the overwhelming support shown to our officers in the aftermath of this unfortunate incident. We are encouraged that Starbucks has reached out to our organization and to the Tempe Police Department to apologize and to further express their support of law enforcement. "We hope that out of this unfortunate incident there comes a welcome dialogue, one that more closely unites the men and women on the frontlines of police work with the communities we serve and protect."Perhaps another lesson is that when something like this happens, we might all take a breath and not turn a single incident by a single barista in a single coffee shop into a nationwide hissy fit.Reach Montini at ed.montini@arizonarepublic.com.