China and the World Health Organization could have responded quicker and more definitively to contain the coronavirus pandemic at its outset, an independent review panel determined. In its second interim report published Monday, the Independent Panel for Pandemic Preparedness and Response, an impartial body established by WHO, determined that China could have been more forceful in implementing public health measures when COVID-19 cases were first discovered in Wuhan.Photos: The Epicenter of Coronavirus"What is clear to the panel is that public health measures could have been applied more forcefully by local and national health authorities in China in January [2020]," the report said. "It is also clear to the panel that there was evidence of cases in a number of countries by the end of January 2020. Public health containment measures should have been implemented immediately in any country with a likely case. They were not."The first cases of COVID-19 were discovered in Wuhan between Dec. 12 and Dec. 29, 2019, but Wuhan did not enter lockdown until Jan. 23, 2020, when the virus had already spread to several countries, including the United States. The panel also determined that "only a minority of countries took full advantage of the information available to them to respond to the evidence of an emerging epidemic." Countries across the globe should have shared measures that worked to help contain the virus and faster action should have been taken to implement the most successful containment measures. Information regarding human-to-human transmission provided by WHO in a briefing in February 2020 should have been a "clear signal to all countries with even a handful of cases that they needed to act quickly to contain the spread." However, the report stated that the signal was ignored in "far too many countries."The report went beyond criticizing just countries' responses. It questioned why WHO waited nearly a month after being alerted to Wuhan's cases to convene its emergency committee and then wait until another week before declaring an international emergency. The independent panel is questioning whether, if the health organization had used the term "pandemic" sooner, it would have made a considerable difference. WHO did not declare the COVID-19 outbreak a pandemic until March, when there were already more than 118,000 cases and 4,000 across the globe. Now, health officials report more than 95.6 million cases and more than 2 million deaths, and while mass vaccination campaigns have begun, the panel predicts that widespread access to vaccines won't be available in some countries until 2023. In the U.S., much of Europe and Japan, vaccines are estimated to be widely available between September 2021 and March 2022. Canada, most of South America, Australia, China and Russia will see widely available vaccines between September 2021 and June 2022. Several countries in Africa and Asia won't see vaccines until 2022, the panel estimates. However, most of Africa and several smaller or socio-economic conflicted countries will be without vaccines until April 2022 into 2023.