Credit...Drew Angerer for The New York TimesMarch 17, 2015WASHINGTON — Congress headed into another major legislative standoff Tuesday when a measure to create a fund for victims of sexual trafficking failed to clear a procedural hurdle, leaving in peril a bill that once had the support of a majority of lawmakers. The dispute between Democrats and Republicans over an abortion provision in the bill has ensnared President Obama’s attorney general nominee, Loretta E. Lynch. Republicans said they would not vote on her confirmation until the sex-trafficking bill was resolved, elongating an already extensive delay on a nominee many Republicans oppose because of her support of Mr. Obama’s immigration policies. “Ms. Lynch has now been waiting 129 days for confirmation,” Josh Earnest, the White House press secretary, said on Tuesday, noting that the interval is longer than for the five previous nominees for the office combined. “And that speaks to the kind of unconscionable delay that we’ve seen in the United States.” The bill, sponsored by Senator John Cornyn, Republican of Texas, would create a fund for victims based on fees assessed to their predators. But it also would have prevented that money from being used to pay for abortions for the victims.The provision is basically a further application of the Hyde Amendment, which generally prohibits taxpayer funds from being used for abortions. Democrats say they do not like what they see as an expansion of the Hyde Amendment to include “fees” and a precedent that could expand abortion restrictions. Democrats, many of whom voted for the bill originally in committee, further insisted that Republicans had sneaked the abortion language into the bill after that vote, a charge Republicans denied. They declined to remove the language. The procedural bill fell five votes short of the 60 needed to go forward, and Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the majority leader, said Tuesday that he would bring the bill to the floor again this week — as early as Wednesday — and try to enlist the additional Democrats needed to move forward. He also held strong to his position that he would not turn to the matter of confirming Ms. Lynch, Mr. Obama’s nominee to replace Attorney General Eric H. Holder Jr., until the sex-trafficking bill got off the floor.“We’re going to stay on this bill,” he said Tuesday. Four Democrats voted yes on the measure with their Republican colleagues. They were Senator Heidi Heitkamp of North Dakota, who has long championed measures for victims of sex trafficking, and Senators Bob Casey of Pennsylvania, Joe Donnelly of Indiana and Joe Manchin III of West Virginia, who are opposed to abortion.“My vote today is about moving on,” Ms. Heitkamp said in a statement, “so we can address this issue, remove divisive political provisions that don’t have anything to do with human trafficking, and gather the bipartisan support this issue deserves.” ImageCredit...Doug Mills/The New York TimesTwo Republicans did not vote, and Mr. McConnell voted against the measure for procedural reasons that will permit him to bring it to the floor again. Thus, Mr. McConnell will need two more Democratic votes.The latest impasse sweeps up five years of the low lights of congressional dysfunction: abortion and immigration policy disputes, White House exasperation, garden-variety distrust and mutual animosity between Democrats and Republicans.“I know there are Senate Democrats who care deeply about the victims of human trafficking,” Mr. Cornyn said. “Unfortunately, not everybody does.”Senator Patrick J. Leahy, Democrat of Vermont, responded with ire, suggesting that Republicans should not be questioning Democrats’ motives. Senator Patty Murray, Democrat of Washington, followed up by simply saying that “enough is enough.”The Hyde Amendment makes exceptions for rape victims, which suggests that many trafficking victims could be exempt from the provision, for example in the case of statutory rape.ImageCredit...Drew Angerer for The New York TimesBefore this impasse, the House had passed several bills on sex trafficking. In January, the House passed a bill sponsored by Representatives Ted Poe, Republican of Texas, and Carolyn B. Maloney, Democrat of New York, that had several provisions to get tough on perpetrators.Soon after, Mr. Poe decided to write a companion to Mr. Cornyn’s measure with a victim fund and the same Hyde expansions. That is now sitting in the House with Ms. Maloney’s name on it, although she said Tuesday that she had asked that her name be removed. “I was not aware it had a Hyde Amendment,” she said. “This is such a divisive issue that had I know that was in it I would not have co-sponsored it.”Democrats are hoping that delaying the nomination of what would be the first African-American woman to head the Justice Department will eventually hurt Republicans, a theme they hit frequently Tuesday. While Mr. McConnell has repeatedly suggested that the Senate could not approve nominations before the trafficking bill was addressed, the Senate did take up two lower-profile executive branch appointments on Monday.“The Senate can walk and chew gum at the same time,” said Senator Charles E. Schumer, Democrat of New York. “We can approve nominees while we work through legislation, and that’s what we ought to do.” Mr. McConnell declined to explain Tuesday why action on some nominees was more possible than on others. 