    'This is not an abstraction: people will lose their jobs,' Obama said. President Barack Obama on Tuesday used the threat of cuts to emergency services as his latest attempt to increase pressure on Congress to avert the automatic spending cuts looming to take effect in just 10 days.  The “meat cleaver approach” of the sequester, Obama said, would “jeopardize our military readiness, it will eviscerate job creating investments in education and energy and medical research.”  Back in Washington from a long weekend of golfing in Florida, Obama accused Republicans of favoring deficit reduction measures that he argued benefit the rich and hurt most Americans. He pushed again for an agreement that would replace $85 billion in cuts by the end of the current fiscal year with a $110 billion package that would cut spending and end some tax loopholes.  An agreement on a larger deal has remained elusive with less than two weeks to go until the deadline, and Obama is looking to push Republicans to a deal.  “Are you willing to see a bunch of first responders lose their jobs because you want to protect a special interest tax loophole? Are you willing to have teachers laid off or kids not have access to Head Start? Or deeper cuts in student loan programs?” he asked, appearing in the Eisenhower Executive Office Building with a group of first responders lined up behind him. He plans to ratchet up the pressure on Republicans with more events at the White House and travel ahead of the March 1 deadline.  ( PHOTOS: 13 people to watch in 2013)  It’s “troubling that just 10 days from now, Congress just might allow a series of automatic, severe budget cuts to take place,” Obama said. “This is not an abstraction: people will lose their jobs.”  The sequester cuts, totaling $1.2 trillion over the course of a decade, were agreed to in the summer of 2011 in a deal to raise the debt ceiling and were intended to be so unpalatable that the White House and Congress would find a way to avert them by developing an alternate long-term deficit reduction plan. Half the cuts would be to non-combat military spending while the other half would be to domestic discretionary spending.  The cuts were originally set to begin on Jan. 1, but the White House and congressional Republicans agreed then to a deal that postponed the cuts for two months in hopes that a longer-term agreement could be reached by the end of February. The first responders who joined Obama at the event would lose their jobs if the sequester were to take effect, the White House said, and defense contractors are expected to be especially hard-hit. In all, the non-partisan Congressional Budget Office said last week, the cuts could result in 750,000 job losses by the end of the year.  House Republicans passed a bill last year to shift all the sequester cuts to domestic spending or, in Obama’s words, “doubled down” on “harsh, harmful cuts” that hurt the middle class while favoring large corporations and the wealthy. The president insisted that he won’t sign any bill that “harms the middle class.”  Taking an even more combative approach Tuesday than he did when first proposing the stop gap measure earlier in the month, Obama said he’s confident that most Americans agree with him. By spelling out the effects of the cuts, he’s hoping to pressure Republicans into accepting an agreement that includes new revenues.  Obama said his “door is open” to work with the GOP, though the White House hasn’t communicated with top congressional Republicans in recent weeks, aides there have said. White House press secretary Jay Carney said during his daily briefing Tuesday that the White House has been “actively engaged” with Capitol Hill.  But Senate Minority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-Ky.) said Tuesday’s event reflected the fact that the president “prefers campaign events to common sense, bipartisan action.”  House Speaker John Boehner (R-Ohio) has said that it’s up to the Senate to act and was dismissive Tuesday of the president’s appeal. “To keep these first responders on the job, what other spending is the president willing to cut?” Boehner asked in a statement. “Spending is the problem, spending must be the focus.”  Though Obama called for the generation of new revenues by closing tax code loopholes, “the American people understand that the revenue debate is now closed,” Boehner said, adding that he agrees that loopholes should be closed, but thinks the revenue should go toward lowering tax rates for all Americans.  Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid (D-Nev.) said he will soon hold a vote on the plan to postpone the sequester that Obama also supports, but insisted that Republicans “get off the sidelines” and work with Democrats on a “balanced approach.”  Congress is in recess this week.  Carrie Budoff Brown contributed to this report. 
