  POLITICO
Politico Logo 
MAGAZINE
Politico Magazine Logo   Visit Magazine  
LETTER FROM DONBAS ‘Kill Your Commanding Officer’: On the Front Lines of Putin’s Digital War With Ukraine
For years, the Russians have used Ukraine as a proving ground for a new type of digital warfare. Is the West ready?   Health What Covid Taught This Mid-Sized City About Ending Homelessness
As Rockford, Illinois nears “functional zero” homelessness, the connection between health and housing has never been clearer.   Politics Opinion | Why Democrats Shouldn’t Say the Midterms Will Be Illegitimate
The failure of voting rights legislation is frustrating. But Democrats shouldn’t embrace Trumpian rhetoric.    history dept. The Lesson Stalin Could Teach Putin About Invading a Neighbor
The Soviet Union’s attack on Finland in 1939 ended surprisingly badly for the much larger aggressor.   Game Theory Opinion | The Ugly Truth Behind All Those Fun Gambling Ads
Unless officials crack down on the flood of advertising, a national crisis of gambling addiction is coming. Opinion by Jack O’Donnell   Game Theory Why the NFL Is (Somehow) America’s Most Resilient Institution
Football has had a brutal year of controversy, but its enduring popularity contains a lesson for our beleaguered political leaders.   History Dept. Opinion | The Nixon I Saw in the Final Days of the 1968 Campaign
I saw a side of the president most Americans didn’t: warm, compassionate and a cunning political operator.   History Dept. Opinion | How the West Gets Ukraine Wrong — and Helps Putin As a Result The extraordinary history and culture of the largest country within Europe needs to be taken more seriously in the Kremlin and everywhere else, too.   Coronavirus Opinion | The Covid Emergency Is Ending. Here’s What We Should Do Next.
It’s time for a new scientifically feasible and politically sustainable strategy to make the coming lull in the pandemic permanent.   the Friday Cover How G. Gordon Liddy Bungled Watergate With an Office-Supply Request
The story of Operation Gemstone, his totally bonkers, Nazi-themed dirty tricks wish list.   Fourth Estate Opinion | How Trump Flushed the Presidential Honor System Down the Toilet
Even Nixon had more regard for the historical record and the office itself.   
Criminal Justice Frequent Prison Lockdowns Backfire. I Know From Experience.
Biden has an opportunity to change prison culture for the better, if he takes it.   
