One of the benefits of media outlets polling on the same question over and over is that it allows us to see trends. (Was that too earth-shattering a revelation for your Monday morning? Too bad.)In the new CNN/ORC poll out Monday, two trends are clear. First, in the murky Republican field, Marco Rubio and Scott Walker have seen the best continued improvement. And, second, no one of either party is getting very close to Hillary Clinton.Here's how the Republican field has evolved. In several cases, you can see surges tied to campaign roll-outs; Jeb Bush's big jump in December followed his announced exploration of a bid, and Ted Cruz and Rubio saw jumps since last month. (We'll note that the margin of error on this is fairly large, at 4.5 percentage points, rendering most of these movements statistically insignificant. Such is and will continue to be the case with such a crowded field.)If you look how each candidate's poll numbers have changed between polls and average them, you can see Walker and Rubio with the best consistent growth. The big loser by that metric is Ben Carson, trailed closely by Chris Christie.On the Democratic side -- hey, did you hear that Hillary Clinton decided to run? Yeah, I know, we were shocked, too. Biden is in second, in the sense that a Sheboygan Hardee's would come in second to Fallingwater in a two-entrant architecture competition.But the bit that's captured a fair amount of attention this morning is how Republicans compare to Clinton. Which can be summarized with the word "poorly."The drop-off against Clinton you see in April is probably in part a function of Clinton's roll-out last week. (The poll was conducted April 16-19.) As we said, campaign launches get attention. What's probably more important to note is that Clinton's national lead is smaller in other national polls, and in some individual states, Republicans occasionally hold a lead.If the election were held today, right this minute, Hillary Clinton would probably be our next president. But it is not held today, despite what the volume of 2016 stories might lead you to believe. Many Americans have paid zero attention to the still-hundreds-of-days-away contest and no one on either side has done much campaigning.So place a bet on a winner if you want, but don't be surprised if it doesn't pay out.