 
2016 Those close to Christie say he has a chance to get his derailed campaign back on track.   
Continue to article content Friday was a bad day for Chris Christie.  But it could have been a whole lot worse.  The indictments of two former Christie allies in connection to their involvement in the Bridgegate scandal, and a guilty plea from a third, cast a harsh, unflattering light on the New Jersey governor. They rose troubling questions about his administration, and about whether Christie had propagated an environment in which political retaliation wasn’t just tolerated, but was standard operating procedure.  But, as a series of charges were unsealed at a federal court in Newark, there was nothing to suggest that Christie himself was in legal jeopardy. At a press conference on Friday, law enforcement officials overseeing the case repeatedly pushed back on questions about Christie’s involvement in the 2013 plan to shut down two lanes of traffic on the George Washington Bridge as political payback to a local mayor who’d refused to endorse the governor’s reelection campaign.  Those close to the governor believe the airing of the charges gives Christie, who saw his meteoric political rise halted by the scandal, the chance to get his derailed presidential campaign back on track.  “Everyone I know that’s supporting Chris believes it will all be cleaned up and that he’ll be moving on,” said Tom Foley, a former U.S. Ambassador to Ireland and a Christie ally.  One top Christie aide, who spoke on the condition of anonymity in order to candidly describe internal conversations, said there was the hope that voters had absorbed the story and were ready to move on. “I think he feels good about where things are at,” the aide said of Christie.  The scandal has exacted a tremendous political toll on Christie’s political aspirations, overshadowing him at a time when presidential contenders are racing to lock up the donors and supporters who are critical to their 2016 hopes. He has watched as his poll numbers, both at home and nationally, have plummeted. While other contenders have raced across the country to introduce themselves to voters in early primary states, Christie has maintained a far lower profile approach.  And he has watched as powerful former supporters — a list that includes New York Jets owner Woody Johnson, one of the most prolific Republican donors in the country, and state Sen. Joe Kyrillos, who chaired Christie’s 2009 campaign — have ditched him in favor of another candidate, former Florida Gov. Jeb Bush.  All the while, Christie waited out for federal authorities to wrap up their investigation, hoping that it would erase questions about his role in the scandal and that it would allow him to begin his presidential quest in earnest. Behind the scenes, his political team put in place a 2016 apparatus. They established a super PAC, which would be led by a prominent Republican operative, Phil Cox. And they began hiring staff in New Hampshire, the state most likely to be amenable to Christie’s plainspoken image.  Christie has also aimed to reassure supporters that things were still on the right track. Earlier this year, Christie held a national conference call to outline his cross-country fundraising tour and a top aide, Bill Palatucci, huddled with prospective financial backers in Washington, D.C. “[Palatucci’s] whole thing was, ‘You’d be crazy to count him out,” said one person at the meeting.  But there would be no official announcement of a presidential run until the clouds of the Bridgegate scandal passed. Friday’s developments gave Christie his first glimpse of an opening. Moments after Paul Fishman, the U.S. attorney for New Jersey, wrapped up his press conference, the governor took to Twitter to declare that, as he said all along, he had nothing to do with what transpired. “Today’s charges make clear that what I’ve said from day one is true,” he wrote. “I had no knowledge or involvement in the planning or execution of this act.”  Even as the prospect of upcoming trials for the Bridgegate conspirators threatens to keep the scandal in the headlines, some see a path forward for the governor.  “It’s never a good thing when you’re running for president and your name and the word ‘indictment’ are mentioned in the same article,” said Katie Packer Gage, a political consultant who served as a top aide on Mitt Romney’s 2012 presidential campaign. “But I think he’ll be able to weather this and put it past him.”  “This is a boost for him,” said Charlie Black, a longtime Washington, D.C. lobbyist who advised John McCain’s 2008 presidential campaign. “I expect him to be competitive.”  Still, there are dangers. As part of a plea deal, David Wildstein, the former Port Authority official who signed off on the plan to shut down lanes, has been cooperating with investigators. Bearded and gaunt, Wildstein stood before cameras on Friday as his attorney, Alan Zegas, suggested cryptically that information about Christie’s role could yet emerge. “There is a lot more that will come out,” he said. (The author previously worked for Wildstein and wrote about it here)  What Wildstein is telling federal authorities remains perhaps the biggest mystery in the case. Once a top political blogger in the state, he’s kept a low profile since resigning from the administration more than a year ago, changing his cell phone number and talking to few. “He’s gone underground,” said one former friend.  Should he remain legally untouched, Christie still must deal with lingering fallout.  His biggest selling point — his image as a truth-teller — has been called into question. Many of the party’s biggest financial contributors are deeply skeptical of the New Jersey governor’s prospects. And he’s found himself surpassed in the polls by a group of ascendent Republican hopefuls, including Florida Sen. Marco Rubio, Wisconsin Gov. Scott Walker, and Bush.  Some argue that, as Christie embarks on his 2016 campaign, he may never rid himself of the taint of scandal.  “The hope was that with the conclusion of the federal investigation he can now put this episode behind him and move on, and maybe he can,” said Eric Fehnstrom, who served as a senior aide on the Romney campaign. “But it’s going to be extremely difficult with criminal charges pending against some of his close associates and the prospect of a trial on the horizon.” 
