Political CalculusMay 5, 2015The religious right remains the largest voting bloc in the Republican Party, and that gives Mike Huckabee, the former Arkansas governor, the potential to play a big role in the presidential nominating contest.But Mr. Huckabee, who was set to announce his presidential bid Tuesday morning, will have a harder time winning Iowa than he did in 2008, when religious conservatives had serious reservations about the two main candidates, John McCain and Mitt Romney.This year’s conservative favorites do not have Mr. Romney’s vulnerabilities among evangelicals, like Mormonism or past support for abortion rights. Some candidates might be outright good fits, like Scott Walker, an evangelical Christian and the son of a pastor.Mr. Huckabee, a Southern Baptist minister who won the Iowa caucuses and five state primaries in 2008, has retained at least some of his support among evangelical Christians, averaging around 8 percent in the polls — as much as fresh-faced candidates like Ted Cruz or Rand Paul.The similarity of Mr. Huckabee to Mr. Cruz or Mr. Paul extends far beyond their polling numbers. Each has championed the cause of one of the party’s large and distinctive factions — the religious right, the Tea Party and libertarians. In doing so, all three became the favorite of a large bloc of voters — and all but unacceptable to the rest of the party.ImageCredit...Illustration by Matt Dorfman and photo by Yana Paskova for The New York TimesMr. Huckabee has received less news media attention than Mr. Cruz or Mr. Paul, but he has an equal chance to play a big role in the race. White evangelical Christians are about 40 percent of Republican primary voters, representing a majority of the vote in many of the party’s caucuses and in the Southern primaries. That gives an evangelical favorite an easy road to winning many contests.Most important, evangelicals also represent nearly 60 percent of Iowa caucus goers, which allowed cultural conservatives like Rick Santorum (in 2012) and Mr. Huckabee (in 2008) to carry the state.So a conservative candidate who hopes to win Iowa, like Senator Cruz or Governor Walker, needs to capture a significant slice of the evangelical vote. Mr. Romney’s failed bid in 2008 is a cautionary tale. He sought to become the main conservative candidate in the race, but ultimately failed to take Iowa because he could not get the support of evangelical Christians.Mr. Huckabee still has the potential to be a spoiler again. He could deny another conservative a large enough share of evangelical voters. He could even win himself. Mr. Huckabee remains a compelling retail politician with strong ratings. He led an NBC/Marist survey of Iowa as recently as two months ago. He has won Iowa before, after all.Of course, Mr. Huckabee did not go on to win the nomination in 2008. And he is unlikely to do so this time. He was pummeled outside the South.Money and organization were part of Mr. Huckabee’s challenge in 2008 in populous, expensive states like Illinois, Florida and California. My Upshot colleague Derek Willis found that just 7 percent of the top 250 Republican donors had contributed to one of Mr. Huckabee’s campaigns, a paltry figure that reflects the secular inclinations of top Republican donors.But the limits of Mr. Huckabee’s appeal were ultimately about his message and record. Fiscal conservatives were very skeptical of Mr. Huckabee, who raised taxes and increased spending as a governor.Pat Toomey, the former head of the Club for Growth and a current senator from Pennsylvania, said, “Mike Huckabee is no conservative.”Last month, Mr. Huckabee attacked conservative plans to reduce entitlement spending and said he wouldn’t vote for the Paul Ryan budget plan. The Club for Growth has already indicated its intention to oppose his bid again.Mr. Huckabee has not done much to broaden his appeal over the last eight years. He has, if anything, more fully embraced his populist brand of religious conservatism.He gave a recent interview with an Iowa talk-radio host in which he said the military, under President Obama’s leadership, “punishes” Christians and Orthodox Jews. He added that parents might want to ponder waiting until a new president is in charge before supporting their children to enlist.It was the kind of talk that could continue to make him a favorite of an influential wing of the party — someone who can lead polls and even win states, but who is opposed by much of the rest of the party and is therefore highly unlikely to win the nomination.