 LONDON — Exit poll results released late Thursday after a nationwide vote to pick Britain’s next Parliament showed the Conservatives with a surprisingly commanding lead, just short of a majority and in a strong position to hang onto power. The results suggested that the Tories, as the Conservatives are known, would win 316 seats in the 650-member Parliament, compared with 239 for the opposition Labor Party. With those results, the Conservatives, led by Prime Minister David Cameron, would still need allies to cobble together a majority and renew their lease on 10 Downing Street after five years in office. If the results hold, Labor, led by Ed Miliband, faces a tortuously difficult path to power. The left-leaning Scottish National Party is projected to be Parliament’s third-largest force following what appeared to be a historic rout of Labor in its traditional Scottish stronghold. British exit polls have proved accurate in previous contests, particularly during the last election in 2010. But pollsters say the outcome this year could be particularly tricky to project given the critical role of smaller parties, which together appeared to have scooped up about a third of all votes. The actual results were being tabulated late Thursday. Official figures were expected to stream in throughout the night and well into Friday morning. Britain's 2015 election is one of the tightest in decades and could lead to potential government gridlock. The Post's Adam Taylor explains the possible outcomes, depending on which parties win the most seats in parliament. (Alice Li/The Washington Post)  “I’m celebrating,” said Lawrence Worsley, a 48-year-old project manager, as he held a pint of beer high in the air at the Blue Boar, a swanky restaurant close to the Conservative and Labor party headquarters in London. “It looked a lot closer than that over the last couple of weeks,” he said. “I think people who were undecided came to the polls and made their mind up at the last minute that it’s best to stick with what you know, something that has worked.” When the exit poll was announced on the BBC, a cluster of suited patrons watching on the restaurant’s big-screen televisions cheered, while others audibly gasped. One man could be heard loudly saying: “Wow, that was much bigger than we thought.” The exit poll results shocked British political observers, who for weeks had predicted a murky, too-close-to-call result. Appearing on the BBC, Labor and Liberal Democrat politicians questioned the poll’s accuracy, saying they would wait for final results. Leading Tory politician Michael Gove said if the results hold, it means the Conservatives “have won.” “If . . . this exit poll is right, then David Cameron has won a very handsome victory,” Gove said on the BBC. Former Liberal Democrat leader Paddy Ashdown expressed deep skepticism, however, saying he would “eat my hat” if the poll was accurate. Even if the exit poll results are sustained, the Tories would still need partners in order to govern, and days if not weeks of negotiations are likely following an election that highlighted deep fractures within a British political system that had long been dominated by two main parties. The exit poll projected a collapse of Liberal Democrat support, leaving the party with just 10 seats, down from 57 in 2010. The Scottish National Party (SNP) was forecast to win 58 seats out of 59 in Scotland — a staggering result, if it holds. The anti-immigration U.K. Independence Party (UKIP) and the Green Party were predicted to win two seats apiece. Despite the Conservatives’ better-than-expected results in the exit poll, the party could struggle to form a majority because of the collapse of its coalition partner, the Liberal Democrats, political analysts said. The Conservatives could be forced to turn to Northern Ireland’s Democratic Unionist Party for additional support, which is not a given. Ed Balls, Labor’s top economic official, said that even if the exit poll is accurate, “David Cameron’s ability to hang onto Downing Street is on a knife edge.” Peter Kellner of YouGov, a Britain-based market research firm, said that if the forecast of 316 seats for the Conservatives holds true, Cameron can govern. He might lose an occasional vote if opposition parties ganged up against him, but he could still govern, Kellner said. “We’re into uncharted territory,” said Andrew Russell, chairman of the politics department at the University of Manchester. “We have an electoral system that is designed to produce a certain winner, and to sustain two parties. But now it’s throwing up a whole multiplicity of parties.” The fracturing reflects an underlying hostility toward the British political establishment, one fed by a multitude of factors, including the lingering effects of the global financial crisis, the growing wealth gap and British misadventures in Iraq and Afghanistan. It also has roots in fundamental questions of British identity. The Scottish nationalists, who appeared likely to become a major player in London after Thursday’s vote, want to break up the United Kingdom. UKIP has campaigned to take Britain out of the European Union. Both issues are likely to dominate much of the debate in Britain in the coming years and could draw Britain even further inward at a time when its global influence has been shrinking. Miliband would almost certainly need support from the Scottish National Party to form a government, though he has ruled out any coalition or deal with the party because of its aspirations for Scottish independence. His vow does not preclude forming a minority government with SNP backing. [A new political order in Scotland threatens to upend the British election ]  Cameron, meanwhile, is expected to rely primarily on the centrist Liberal Democrats, his current coalition partner. But the two parties disagree vehemently on Europe: Cameron has promised a referendum on European Union membership by 2017, while the Liberal Democrats have said they are strongly opposed. Even if the two parties can work out their disagreements, support for the Liberal Democrats has fallen sharply since the last election. Among the parties that have gained support is UKIP, which appeared on track to win a handful of seats Thursday and is likely to use its perch in the House of Commons to force the two main parties to continue to grapple with the Europe question. Britain’s six-week campaign was one of the most fiercely fought and unpredictable in decades. Final polls before election day had showed the two main parties almost precisely tied, with each taking about a third of the vote. [11 weird memes that help explain the British election ]  Even before the polls closed, the main parties had begun jockeying for position in the post-election maneuvering that is now officially underway. In recent days, Cameron has sought to cast doubt on the legitimacy of a Miliband government propped up by the SNP, calling it “a con trick.” Labor backers have insisted that the party can govern on its own terms, and that the SNP has limited its own leverage by vowing to “lock out the Tories.” Although the largest party in Parliament has governed the country for nearly a century, there is precedent for the runner-up cobbling together a coalition instead. The rules require that the governing party command a majority of support in the House of Commons.  [The British election is the most unpredictable in a generation. Here’s why.]  In theory, that would mean 326 seats. In practice, though, because some members don’t vote, a majority is 323 seats. Most analysts had expected that Cameron would coast to a relatively easy reelection, boosted by a recovering economy and a significantly higher favorability rating than Miliband. But Miliband performed better than many expected in the harsh glare of the campaign, and his emphasis on the growing divide between rich and poor appeared to resonate at a time of minimal wage growth and deep cuts to government assistance programs. In the final days of the campaign, with the polls still tied, Cameron became more passionate on the campaign trail — and more negative, predicting that Labor would lead the country to economic calamity if voted into office. That message appeared to have resonated, at least with some. After voting Tory in the tony North London neighborhood of Hampstead on Thursday, Norma Bainbridge said her decision came down to a single word: “money.” “The Conservatives are quite clever with it,” said the 80-year-old. “Labor got rid of it. We were broke.” But Bainbridge said she was less than enthusiastic about another five years of Cameron, reflecting a pervasive dissatisfaction with all the available options. “I don’t like any of them, really,” she said. Voters on the left said much the same about the two traditional options. “I’m a lifelong Labor voter, but I’m disillusioned,” said Sally Davies, a former librarian. She voted for the Green Party instead. “They’re a real alternative to the stale, corporate-driven politics we’re experiencing at the moment.” Philippa Milnes-Smith, a 55-year-old literary agent voting in the swing constituency of Battersea in South London, said that after several changes of heart, she ultimately went with Labor. “It’s probably a protest vote, as much as anything,” she said. “I don’t think sufficient attention is being paid to the less fortunate in society, I don’t think enough attention is being paid to education; and I think there is an increasing gap between London and the rest of the country.”  Daniela Deane contributed to this report.  Read more:  Britain's election could trigger a political scrum  British immigrants decry being made scapegoats in election campaign  Britain’s prime minister ate a hot dog with a knife and fork, and it’s a problem  Today's coverage from Post correspondents around the world 