
Sund and acting D.C. police chief Robert Contee described to senators a conference call that afternoon with senior security personnel during which a top Pentagon official, Lt. Gen. Walter Piatt, said he would recommend against deploying the National Guard for fear of the “optics” of armed troops in front of the Capitol. Sund and Contee said they informed Piatt that their officers, already beleaguered and beaten by the mob, were desperate for help.
“Lt. Gen. Piatt then indicated that he was going to run the request up the chain of command at the Pentagon," recalled Sund, who resigned after the riots. "Almost two hours later, we had still not received authorization from the Pentagon to activate the National Guard.”
Contee told lawmakers that he was “literally stunned” by Army officials’ nonchalant responses.
“Chief Sund was pleading for the deployment of the National Guard and in response to that, there was not an immediate ‘Yes, the National Guard is responding',” Contee said. The revelations prompted Sen. Gary Peters (D-Mich.), chair of the Homeland Security Committee, and Sen. Amy Klobuchar (D-Minn.), chair of the Rules Committee, to call for testimony from officials who served in the Pentagon at the time. The senators said those officials, whom they declined to name, would be appearing on the Hill next week to take questions about allegations that they slow-walked approval of a National Guard deployment.
Sen. Maggie Hassan (D-N.H.) indicated she expected to receive testimony from former Department of Homeland Security officials, too.
The Pentagon has contested the timeline Sund offered. His call with the commanding general of the National Guard, Maj. Gen. William Walker, requesting assistance occurred at 1:49 pm and lasted less than 30 minutes, according to defense officials and a detailed timeline of the day the Pentagon released in January. D.C.'s mayor, Muriel Bowser, had requested only limited Guard support ahead of the riot, primarily for street closures and crowd control, an Army spokesperson noted in a statement to POLITICO. Both the Pentagon and Department of Homeland Security were headed at the time of the riot by acting officials installed in the waning weeks of Trump’s administration without explanation.
Tuesday’s hearing, a joint effort by both Peters' and Klobuchar's committees, was lawmakers’ first chance to expose the security failures that allowed rioters to overtake the Capitol.
Sund used his testimony to defend his former force’s handling of Jan. 6, describing that day's collapse of the Capitol defenses as “not the result of poor planning or failure to contain a demonstration gone wrong.”
“No single civilian law enforcement agency — and certainly not the USCP — is trained and equipped to repel, without significant military or other law enforcement assistance, an insurrection of thousands of armed, violent, and coordinated individuals focused on breaching a building at all costs,” he told senators.
According to Contee, “available intelligence pointed to a large presence of” some extremist groups that had stirred violence at protests in the nation’s capital late last year. However, Contee said, D.C. “did not have intelligence pointing to a coordinated assault on the Capitol.”
In addition to Sund and Contee, the Senate heard from the former House and Senate sergeants-at-arms. But key details of their stories conflicted.
For example, Sund claimed he called then-House Sergeant-at-Arms Paul Irving early on in the assault — at 1:09 p.m. to request more help. But Irving said he has no memory or record of that call and was on the House floor at that time. He told lawmakers he did not receive a formal request from Sund until after 2 p.m.
Lawmakers pressed Sund and Irving on that discrepancy and asked them to share phone records.
Sund also told senators that the Capitol Police’s intelligence unit received a report from the FBI on the evening before the insurrection that warned of extremist groups preparing for “war.” But Sund said that report never made it up the chain to him.
Irving and Michael Stenger, the then-Senate sergeant-at-arms, said they also never saw it.