    Hagel's opponents have mostly agreed to work with him in his new role. | John Shinkle/POLITICO They beat him up for months — in TV ads, in op-ed pages and in Congress, with delay after delay before his confirmation on Tuesday.  But now that Chuck Hagel is set to take the top job at the Pentagon on Wednesday, many of his Senate opponents seemed ready to mend fences just hours after trying to derail him. As Hagel’s confirmation cleared the Senate floor 58 to 41, key Republican opponents who tried to wreck his nomination were already engaged in the Washington ritual of trying to make nice with their opponent after spending weeks opposing him.  “I like Chuck,” said Sen. Jeff Sessions of Alabama — who once said he had “dramatic concern” about Hagel’s opposition to nuclear weapons and voted against him on Tuesday. “I’ve been reluctant to criticize him, but I did disagree with some of his policy positions. He went through a tough confirmation, was asked appropriate questions … I would think that personalities won’t be a problem.”  ( Also on POLITICO: Senate confirms Chuck Hagel 58-41)  Sen. Kelly Ayotte of New Hampshire, a member of the Armed Services Committee who voted against Hagel in committee and then in the full Senate, said she looked forward to meeting with the new defense secretary to tackle what she called common challenges.  “It is my hope … that he will sit down with everyone on the committee, and that we do what’s best for our Department of Defense going forward,” Ayotte said.  ( WATCH: Top 5 controversial Chuck Hagel positions)  And Sen. Lindsey Graham of South Carolina, who signed a letter urging Hagel to withdraw, and said Hagel might embolden Iran and endanger the U.S.’s relationship with Israel, said he hoped Hagel would prove him wrong.  “I hope he exceeds expectations,” Graham said. “It would be great for the country. Sen. Hagel has a challenge to prove to people that he’s up for the job.”  ( Also on POLITICO: Schumer plays role of deal-maker)  For his part, Hagel pledged cooperation after his grueling battle for confirmation.  “I will work closely with Congress to ensure that we maintain the strongest military in the world and continue to protect this great nation,” he said in a statement.  Still, not everyone was eager to bury the hatchet.  Arizona Sen. John McCain, who faulted Hagel and joined his Republican colleagues in their delay tactics, said the responsibility for mending fences belongs solely with Hagel. Asked about whether the relationship across the Potomac would improve, McCain answered, “It depends on what he does.”  And freshman Sen. Ted Cruz (R-Texas) said the end of the Hagel battle is not necessarily a happy ending for the country.  “Chuck Hagel will be confirmed because Senate Democrats stood united behind President [Barack] Obama’s nomination of the most controversial secretary of defense in modern times,” Cruz said. “I fervently hope that this confirmation does not embolden Iran to accelerate their nuclear weapons development; I fervently hope that this confirmation does not undermine our vital alliance with Israel.”  ( PHOTOS: Chuck Hagel’s confirmation hearing)  McCain and Cruz appeared to be outliers in their unwillingness to begin building a relationship now that Hagel will run the Pentagon.  Hagel’s opponents outside Congress — led by Bill Kristol, the conservative editor of The Weekly Standard and the chairman of the Emergency Committee for Israel — framed the drawn-out process as a success for their cause.  “We are heartened that the overwhelming majority of senators from one of the two major parties voted against confirming Mr. Hagel,” Kristol said in a statement after the vote. “[We] do believe that, as a result of this battle, Mr. Hagel will be less free to pursue dangerous policies at the Defense Department and less inclined to advocate them within the administration.” Added a Republican Senate aide: “When you get 41 votes against your confirmation for secretary of defense, that is downright embarrassing. There is nothing here for the White House to be proud of. Rest assured, we will be watching Hagel like a hawk.”  And Michael Goldfarb, a strategist for the Emergency Committee for Israel, tweeted following Hagel’s confirmation, “Sorry, America. No substitute for victory, but we fought the good fight — and did a lot more damage than most thought possible.”  A Hagel aide told POLITICO he is used to the way business is done on Capitol Hill.  “Chuck Hagel comes from the Congress … He’s going to work closely with them. He understands the vital role that Congress plays in ensuring the nation’s security,” the aide said, pointing out that Hagel had met with 77 senators over his long confirmation process. “One of the first issues he’s going to have to deal with is sequestration, a perfect example of where Congress plays a crucial role.”  Pentagon press secretary George Little, who repeated the dangers of sequestration in a briefing for reporters on Tuesday, made a similar point.  Asked whether Hagel could be effective in running the massive DOD after his bruising confirmation process, Little said: “Absolutely.”  “Sen. Hagel is someone who has spent much of his life in the halls of the United States Congress,” Little said. “He understands the importance of healthy debate, including during the confirmation process, and I think he is going to come in with a philosophy that he’s going to be a team player inside this building and that will extend to the United States Congress.”  Pentagon officials have been briefing Hagel about the war and the workings of the department. And Little said Hagel “has signaled his very strong commitment right away to get down to business, to get deeply invested in the work of the Pentagon and its military and civilian workers.”  Next, Little said, “he needs to build a team, and he recognizes it, to support the men and women of the U.S. military and our civilian employees. There is too much work to be done, too many priorities on the table, too many issues to be addressed, too many threats looming for our national security to get bogged down in the recent past. He is going to look to the future and I think it’s the absolutely right orientation [to take].”  Senate Armed Services Committee Chairman Carl Levin (D-Mich.) said he doesn’t believe there will be many personal problems between senators and Hagel.  “He’s a professional. We’re all professional. We’ve been through the rough and tumble of politics … Frankly, we’re friends. Even those who voted against him would count themselves as his friends,” Levin said. “I don’t see any big gulf that needs to be overcome at all. … Everyone who has worked with Sen. Hagel realizes that he is not the kind of person to hold grudges.”  Sen. Angus King (I-Maine), an Armed Services Committee member and former governor, agreed.  “My experience in these things is that people get over it and move on.” 
