    
‘His reputation as speaker was beyond reproach.’ 
“Everyone is in shock.”  That’s how former Rep. Tom Davis (R-Va.) summed up the feelings of official Washington — among Republicans especially — after Thursday’s stunning federal indictment of former Speaker Dennis Hastert (R-Ill.).  “I am absolutely floored by this,” Davis added. “I hope to God it’s not true.”  “The Coach” as he was known among his colleagues — Hastert was a one-time wrestling coach — has been charged with illegally “structuring” more than $950,000 in bank withdrawals in a way to avoid reporting requirements on such transactions and with lying to FBI agents when asked about the withdrawals.  Hastert reportedly used those funds to help pay off an unnamed individual for unspecified “prior misconduct” against that person, according to the federal grand jury indictment. Hastert, who served in Congress from 1987 to 2007, allegedly agreed to pay $3.5 million to “Individual A” in 2010, and he had handed over $1.7 million so far, the indictment states.  What “prior misconduct” Hastert might have committed against this person is not spelled out in the charging document. The indictment, based on a criminal investigation that began in 2013, does not specify what happened but alleged it involved activities from “years earlier.”  “Individual A” is described as having known Hastert for most of that person’s life, the indictment notes.  During an interview with POLITICO last week as rumors about his legal problems began to circulate, Hastert denied any knowledge of a pending indictment. And he refused to discuss any allegations of abuse or other improper behavior, declaring, “I’m not going to talk to you.”  Yet perhaps what’s most surprising is that these allegations never arose during Hastert’s eight years as speaker, the longest such tenure of any Republican in history.  A former Hastert aide noted privately on Thursday that House Democrats dug deep into the Illinois Republican’s background during his time as speaker. Among the sleuths was former Rep. Rahm Emanuel (D-Ill.), who ran the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee, but like others he came up with nothing.  “I don’t see how this didn’t come up on the radar before,” said the aide, who declined to be named. “It’s sort of beyond belief.”  Hastert became the GOP choice for speaker almost by accident. Former Speaker Newt Gingrich (R-Ga.) stepped down after Republicans lost seats in the 1998 midterms amid voter anger at the House impeachment of then-President Bill Clinton.  Republican Bob Livingston of Louisiana, who was Gingrich’s heir apparent, then resigned over an extramarital affair.  With the House Republican Conference in turmoil, Rep. Tom DeLay (R-Texas), at that time the House majority whip and the most powerful Republican on Capitol Hill, helped engineer Hastert’s rise to the speaker’s chair. The powerful DeLay whip operation lined up the votes for Hastert in a single day, vaulting the Illinois Republican from deputy whip to the pinnacle of power, despite concerns from some other senior GOP lawmakers that he wasn’t the right person for the job.  Hastert was popular with rank-and-file members and worked hard at the politics of the speakership, including keeping up a grueling fundraising schedule. But he was never good with the news media or in explaining an overall policy rationale. Hastert saw his primary duty as presiding over and protecting a razor-thin House GOP majority, and this he did for eight long years.  “His reputation as speaker was beyond reproach,” Davis said after news of the indictment Thursday. Davis served two terms as chairman of the National Republican Congressional Committee under Hastert and sat at the leadership table with him for four years. “He was seen as a man of total integrity.”  Yet Hastert’s record, and that of the Republican majority he oversaw, has suffered since their majority was swept away by Democrats in 2006.  House Republicans were seen by many as blindly following former President George W. Bush’s lead in the months and years after the 9/11 attacks, including backing the 2003 invasion of Iraq and the Bush’s administration’s disastrous handling of the subsequent insurgency.  In return for their support on Iraq, Bush gave lawmakers a free hand on federal spending. And lawmakers inserted thousands of earmarks into annual appropriations bills. The practice grew out of hand, however, and led to scandals, including a bribery case that landed Rep. Randy “Duke” Cunningham (R-Calif.) in federal prison.  Other scandals followed on Hastert’s watch, in part because the House Ethics Committee was unable to do its job policing members thanks to partisan squabbling. The Jack Abramoff debacle ensnared DeLay, former Administration Committee Chairman Bob Ney (R-Ohio), and a host of other members and aides. The FBI even raided the Capitol Hill office of ex-Rep. William Jefferson (D-La.), a move that resulted in howls of protests from Republicans and Democrats alike. While the FBI later was forced to return the material it seized, Jefferson eventually ended up in prison anyway.  Hastert was seen by many as under DeLay’s control, even trying to protect DeLay after the Texas Republican was indicted in a politically inspired money laundering case in the Lone Star State. DeLay was eventually forced to give up his leadership post and then resigned when it looked like he would be defeated in 2006 due to his ties to Abramoff.  Perhaps most devastating for Hastert was his handling of the sex scandal surrounding ex-Rep. Mark Foley (R-Fla.), an episode which might come to be viewed in a different light after Thursday’s announcement by the Justice Department.  Foley resigned just weeks before the 2006 elections after being confronted with a series of inappropriate text messages between himself and young male pages. Accusations flew that Hastert hadn’t taken seriously warning signs about Foley, some which had repeatedly come to the attention of Hastert’s most senior aides long before the scandal exploded into public view.  With Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi (D-Calif.) and Democrats campaigning against the “culture of corruption” in the House — as well as public disenchantment over Bush and Iraq — the chamber flipped to Democratic control and Hastert lost his speakership.  In 2007, Hastert announced he wouldn’t run for reelection. He left office in November of that year, landing a job at a prestigious Washington lobbying firm, a post he resigned from on Thursday after his indictment.  One of Hastert’s sons later lost a bid for his father’s congressional seat, showing how little sway the Hastert name carried in Illinois politics after his speakership ended. 
