    'Take your campaign of division and anger and hate back to Chicago,' Romney said. CHILLICOTHE, Ohio — Blasting President Barack Obama for running a campaign of “hate,” Mitt Romney delivered a blistering critique of the tone of the election.  “Mr. President, take your campaign of division and anger and hate back to Chicago and let us get about rebuilding and reuniting America,” Romney said to the cheers of thousands crowded into the streets here.  Delivering prepared remarks to cap a four-state bus tour, Romney said the negative tone of the campaign is distracting from the issues.  “You don’t hear any answers coming from President Obama’s reelection campaign,” Romney said. “That’s because he’s intellectually exhausted, out of ideas, and out of energy. And so his campaign has resorted to diversions and distractions, to demagoguery and defaming others.”  Romney is referring to the unrelenting slams from Obama and the Democratic super PAC, Priorities USA, which have run attack ads on his record at Bain Capital, the latest of which was a web ad accusing Romney of laying off a man whose wife later died of cancer.  Republicans fret that Romney hasn’t responded effectively. After he picked Paul Ryan as his vice presidential running mate this weekend, some GOP strategists are concerned that their presidential nominee is opening yet another front in the attack wars, this one over Ryan’s plan to overhaul Medicare.  On Tuesday night, Romney sought to respond with one fell swoop.  The former Massachusetts governor didn’t answer any of the attacks specifically, but instead cast Obama as desperate and willing to say anything to hold on to power.  Romney pointed to “wild and reckless accusations that disgrace the office of the presidency.”  Romney’s campaign has previously used such terms to describe attacks on Romney’s business record, including a the Priorities web ad that featured a man whose wife died of cancer after man lost his job at a Kansas City plant owned by Bain Capital.  Romney has said he can’t be held responsible for what happened at Bain after 1999, when he effectively stopped managing the company’s daily business to run the Salt Lake City Olympics.  He also alluded to a comment by Vice President Joe Biden in Virginia today that Romney would put “y’all back in chains” by allowing Wall Street to run rampant if he was in the White House.  “Another outrageous charge came a few hours ago in Virginia. And the White House sinks a little bit lower,” Romney said. “This is what an angry and desperate presidency looks like.”  Romney sought to the Obama campaign as a losing choice, not just because of policy but because of the presidential campaign’s tactics.  “If an American president wins that way, we all lose,” Romney said. “But he won’t win that way. America is one Nation under God.” It’s a new approach for Romney, who himself sustained attacks from his primary opponents for running a campaign based solely on personal attacks.  Romney is seeking to reset the dynamic, arguing that he is the candidate of unity and substance next to Obama.  “This election is about restoring the promise of America,” Romney said. “It’s a choice between two visions for our nation’s future. It’s about the challenges America faces. It is about a better tomorrow and a better future.”  In trying to do so, he reminded voters of the 2008 Obama. “In 2008, candidate Obama said, ‘If you don’t have any fresh ideas, then you use stale tactics to scare voters,’” Romney said. He added, “That was candidate Obama describing the strategy that is the now the heart of his campaign.”  Romney himself has been criticized for failing to detail his policy positions, and lacking vision in his campaign until this point.  On Monday, when asked repeatedly about his views on Medicare and how they differed from Ryan’s, he evaded the questions.  And in his speech on Tuesday night, the presumptive nominee highlighted his five-point proposal to help middle-class families, a boiled down version of his 59-point white paper to revive the economy.  “Paul and I have a positive agenda that will lead to economic growth, to widespread and shared prosperity that will improve the lives of our fellow citizens,” Romney said.  And he spoke, with little specificity, about what he would do to change Medicare.  “If the President is reelected, he will succeed in raiding $716 billion from Medicare — from the trust fund you have paid into all your lives — to pay for Obamacare,” Romney said. “He is taking your money to finance his risky and unproven takeover of the health-care system.”  Noticeably missing from Romney’s speech was his recent attack on Obama for changing work rules for welfare recipients, a charge independent fact checkers have deemed false.  Obama’s campaign responded harshly to Romney’s allegations about the overly negative tone of the campaign.  “Gov. Romney’s comments tonight seemed unhinged, and particularly strange coming at a time when he’s pouring tens of millions of dollars into negative ads that are demonstrably false,” Ben LaBolt, Obama’s campaign press secretary, said in a statement. 
