 VIDEO: Julie Heckman on the industry's big week — and how to watch a fireworks showFireworks manufacturers have been on something of a winning streak of late: Sales of both low-and
high-grade celebratory explosives in the U.S. are projected to top $1 billion this year; more states than ever now allow consumers to buy sparklers, Roman candles and other do-it-yourself pyrotechnics. Obscure
regulations are being scaled back to help light up the country's summertime skies.But with the Fourth of July busy season bearing down, the industry says it still has one big problem: President Barack Obama's administration.Whether it be duplicative safety rules on the fireworks themselves or requirements that truckers limit their weekly time on the road, the makers, marketers and distributors of pyrotechnics complain that Obama's regulators are "completely insane" by forcing so many standards on an industry that's as much a part of a patriotic summer as baseball and apple pie. Officials at the Consumer Product Safety Commission counter that the fireworks industry is still operating in a danger zone. Data released last Friday counted 11 fatalities and more than 10,000 injuries from fireworks in 2014. While the number of injuries in the country was down from the prior year, CPSC communications director Scott Wolfson warned "that's an unacceptable number," especially as more states open up their markets to legal fireworks.
Amid her busy season, American Pyrotechnics Association executive director Julie Heckman recently sat down with POLITICO senior writer Darren Samuelsohn to explain why she won't have a break until after July 5th, once she's checked in with the operators of some 15,000 professional display performances across the country. She also talked about why it's been so challenging in dealing with a rotating cast of Obama administration political officials and how her industry deals with safety concerns when so much of its product comes from China.Darren
Samuelsohn: What is the Fourth of July period like for your organization? Julie Heckman: It is very
nerve-racking. You know, it's our
Christmas season, if you will. We love
dealing with the press, the media, but there is always that concern that your
phone's going to ring with potentially bad news that something went wrong
somewhere. We're prepared for it, we
pray it doesn't happen, and we just want to get through July 5th and read the
headlines that everything went off perfectly. DS: States are definitely more friendly to fireworks today — 47 states and Washington D.C. now allow some or all types of consumer fireworks. Why are we seeing so many states loosen their
fireworks prohibitions?JH: The move in relaxing the
laws is really driven a little bit by the economy and it's also because the
lack of enforcement…. People are going to celebrate on the Fourth of July with
fireworks, and typically they will cross state lines, county lines. They'll bring their fireworks back to their
home where it might not be legal. And so, with enforcement, as well as with
looking at the amount of revenue generated from, you know, selling fireworks,
states are saying, "Hey, we don't want to lose that revenue. We'd like to gain it in our state." And
they're looking at special taxes that help support perhaps fireworks training
for the enforcement officials or a special fund that they can generate that
money with. DS: Only three states still have complete prohibitions on fireworks: Delaware, Massachusetts and New Jersey. Why are they holding out? JH: You know, it's interesting. Those bans have been on the books since the early 1900s. I'm hearing there's possible legislation going to move in Massachusetts and Delaware, but I don't know why New Jersey's not forging ahead.DS:
What do you make
of the CPSC’s latest data out last Friday, showing fireworks fatalities were up in 2014, while
there were fewer injuries?JH: I think when you look at
the statistics published by the U.S. Consumer Product Safety Commission with
regard to firework-related injuries, actually, it's very positive. We look at the consumption, the overall usage
of backyard consumer fireworks has increased significantly during the past
decade, and when you look at the use of fireworks and compare then the number
of injuries, actually, the injury rate has declined. I'm not aware of one other consumer product
on the market today where the usage has risen so dramatically, yet the injuries
have gone down.DS:
How do you guarantee safety when such large percentages of the fireworks consumed in the U.S. —nearly all consumer products, and about 75 percent of the display
fireworks — come from China? JH: The industry has been
very committed to working with the foreign manufacturers over in China. In fact, through the APA, another organization
was created, the American Fireworks Standards Laboratory, which is a
third-party certification organization. They actually test the product in China to make certain that not only
does it meet the Consumer Product Safety Commission regulations, it exceeds
them, because AFSL standards go a step beyond what the federal government
mandates. And you know, the product has improved significantly, so we're very
proud of that. DS:
How did the West
Coast labor dispute affect the Chinese firework imports?JH:
We were very nervous at the end of lunar new year, because that is
when the vast majority of fireworks leave China to arrive on the West Coast
ports. We had
volumes of containers sitting out in the Pacific Ocean waiting to get in. We've been fortunate. All the product is here for this Fourth of
July. It could have been far worse.DS: You are backing
legislation from Sen. Lamar Alexander, the PORTS Act, that would give state
governors more power to intervene in labor
disputes like the one that recently ended on the West Coast. Why?JH: We do not want to see any industries go through the
disruptions that occurred on the West Coast this year. …We think it's really
important that when there is a lockout and there is a disagreement to try and
get these contracts solved that the governors can take action.DS: What's your biggest ask on Capitol Hill this session?JH: Right now we are advocating for reauthorization of the Hazardous Materials Transportation Act. That will fix a few issues for us, including the ongoing problems with EX [explosives] approvals and special permits, fixing the hazmat safety permit program, and also addressing duplicative background checks.  DS: What do you see as the chances for action on that bill this year?JH: Oh, it's been going on forever. It's kind of interesting. You feel like, how many years have I been working on this, will I ever see reauthorization? Again, cautiously optimistic. I don't know if it will move with the larger surface transportation bill or not, but we're going to continue to focus on those several key issues.DS: The CSPC agreed to review its safety standards this year for fireworks. What are you hoping will come out of this?JH: I think the primary issue that the firework industry has right now with the Consumer Product Safety Commission is the testing for audible effect. That ear test needs to go away. We need something that can be replicated in the field, predominantly in China using a lab so that everybody's on the same level. Because what's loud to me might not be loud to you.DS: Your members have called
for more reforms to the permitting process for the firework industry at both the Pipeline
and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration and the Federal Motor Carrier
Safety Administration. Have those agencies been doing a better job from your perspective?JH: I think both PHMSA and FMCSA have done a pretty decent
job at trying to improve their programs over the past several years, but I
think within this administration we've seen too many changes. You know, by the time you get an
administrator really engaged in your issues and her team, the support team,
working on them, there's been a shift. We've had acting administrators in both agencies that are now being
replaced again. And so, you kind of
start all over with the educational standpoint of what's important to your
industry.We're one of hundreds of
industries that the agency has to focus on. Right now I think PHMSA in
particular is worried about crude oil, and FMCSA has to worry more about
passenger vehicles, because... that's where the accidents
are.DS: Does it feel like your
industry is ignored?JH: They get
put on the back shelf.DS:
How would you size up the Obama administration’s regulatory approach for your
industry?JH:
I've been working with the industry for a
very long time, 26 years. I have never
seen as many rulemaking initiatives as I have with this administration. It has just been completely insane. You know, I'm not saying it's necessary, but
it would be really great when — take a tiny industry like fireworks, and we've
got to comply with ATF, CPSC, EPA, OSHA, multiple divisions of the Department of
Transportation, it's really challenging. It would be great if we could have one agency that took care of
everything, and I'm sure there are other industries that are also feeling that
pain, but it has been very significant.DS: You did get a big win in April when PHMSA removed a requirement for the fireworks industry to get a permit for each individual product, even when the actual ingredients in it were the same but only the name was different.JH: We were extremely pleased when PHMSA decided to not require a new EX [explosives] application come in for an additional name on a firework item. ...We think that's going to help eliminate the backlog in some of the work for PHMSA. DS: Your industry is also getting what it wants concerning driving time restrictions on truckers too?
JH: We're very concerned
about the hours of service. ...We
basically echo the concerns of the American Trucking Association. Our folks are so heavily regulated and, while
most people don't think about the firework industry except one day a year, Fourth of July, we have to comply with everything. And we do have an hours-of-service exemption, very, very narrow, provides
some relief for our companies during the ten days around the Fourth of July so
that they are able to take their rest time and not count it towards their
driving time. So,
Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration has been generous to us because of our safety
record--we've proven our safety record over a ten-year period with having this
exemption. And so, that's a key matter
that we're very interested in.DS: Given the state action and some of these regulation moves, it actually sounds like your industry is on something of a winning streak?
JH: We're a very tiny industry, just barely over a billion dollars. We don't have big lobbying dollars. You can talk about lobbying, you're looking
at the lobbyist right here. We have a
great commodity, we have a great industry record to promote, and I think when
we do go to Capitol Hill for support, members of Congress listen to us. I mean, we're small — [we] represent small family
businesses who are trying to do their very best to survive. And so, we pick and choose our asks very
carefully. We want the industry to be regulated,
we just want common sense regulations.  