    
Former governor calls for longer lobbying ban, line-item veto. 
TALLAHASSEE, Fla.—Jeb Bush kicked off a series of policy speeches in his old political stomping ground on Monday, rolling out a reform agenda for “Mount Washington,” a spinoff of the nickname he gave Tallahassee during his eight years as governor.  “We used to call this city 'Mount Tallahassee' because it was so remote from the people, caught up in the settled ways of a comfortable establishment,” Bush said to an audience of political supporters.  The former governor, who served from 1999 through 2007, used the speech to push for a handful of policy proposals he said will clean up Washington, outlining a plan to to blunt elected officials' ability to get rich by leaving office and quickly turning around to lobby their former colleagues, add transparency to lobbying meetings and expand the president’s veto power.  Bush delivered the roughly 30-minute speech to a room stocked with more than 200 allies, many of whom worked in his administration before transitioning to the lobbying firms that line Tallahassee’s downtown streets.  Bush highlighted lobbying reforms he signed while he was in office, including a “gift ban” that prohibited lobbyists or any entity that employed a registered lobbyists from buying meals or gifts for lawmakers.  “Over time, lobbyists and legislators grew too comfortable in each other’s company,” Bush said, calling the gift ban one of the “strictest lobbying reforms in the county.”  He called for federal lobbying reforms, including forcing members of Congress to post any meetings with lobbyists online, and extending to six years a ban on members leaving office and becoming lobbyists.  “If I am elected president, I will use all of my influence to enact into law an immediate, unequivocal six-year ban on lobbying — a full Senate term — for ex-members of the House and Senate,” Bush said, to loud applause.  Bush's remarks also criticized members of Congress who miss votes, a category that includes Marco Rubio, a Miami Republican who is also running for president. (In February, POLITICO reported on a Vocativ analysis that showed Rubio had missed the most votes of any senator—a total off 99 votes, or about 8 percent, of the total 1,198 cast since he joined the Senate in 2011.)  Bush joked legislation blocking pay for members who miss votes might not pass, but at least “it would get them there for a vote.”  He also highlighted parts of his record that he said helped shrink the size of government in Tallahassee, a city he likened to Washington for its bloated special interests.  Bush slashed the state workforce by 13,000 workers — or about 11 percent — in his eight years in office, an accomplishment that has already been touted by Right to Rise, a pro-Bush super PAC. A video released by Bush’s campaign prior to his visit boasted of 13,000 “fewer bureaucrats” after the governor’s eight years in office.  Bush said he would call for a federal hiring freeze, as part of his efforts to slim “federal bureaucracy.”  “It is a fairly safe bet that not everyone who leaves needs to be replaced,” he said.  Bush also boasted of his heavy veto pen as governor, having vetoed over $2 billion in state spending, which earned him the nickname “Veto Corleone.”  He said the president has to act in the “national interest,” which requires the ability to line-item veto specific spending items, a power he enjoyed as governor of Florida.  “It’s time to revive Veto Corleone,” he said.  Democrats who served during Bush’s administration decried his cuts.  “Most of those cuts had been employees that were in critical services,” said Democrat Dan Gelber, who served in the House from 2001 to 2008, in an interview before the speech. “Florida has always been austere. We did not have a lot of staff before the cuts.”  Though he racked up large numbers of vetoes, the size of the Florida’s overall budget did grow from roughly $50 billion during Bush’s first year in office to $71 billion when he left in 2007.  Bush said as president he would push for a balanced budget amendment, saying he had “balanced Florida’s budget” for eight consecutive years. (Florida politicians regularly tout a balanced budget on the stump, without mentioning that the state constitution requires a balanced budget.)  Bush also cited improvements to the state’s child welfare system while he was in office, including changes spurred by the death of 4-year-old Rilya Wilson, was a foster child in the care of the Department of Children and Families.  She disappeared in 2000, but DCF did not notice she was missing until 2002. Her death prompted the “Rilya Wilson Act,” a 2003 law that required children in state custody enrolled in an early learning program to attend that program five days per week. An unreported absence now prompts a DCF home visit.  “Working with the Florida legislature we stepped up our commitment to community-based care and made the system much more responsive,” Bush said.  But Gelber, who served as the House’s top Democrat just after Bush’s tenure, said the deep cuts across state government had contributed to a dangerous lack of oversight at the agency. (A Miami Herald investigation in 2014 found that 477 children whose cases had some contact with the department had died since 2008, the year after Bush left office.)  “I don’t know how anyone can point to hundreds, maybe thousands, dying without regretting not having that oversight,” said Gelber.  Bush did not meet with reporters after the speech. Aides said they were “crunched for time,” but would not elaborate on the candidate's schedule. 
