Sammon Gave Keynote Speech At Fundraiser For Monroe County Conservative Party. In 2003, Sammon gave the keynote speech at the annual fundraising dinner for the Monroe County Conservative Party in upstate New York. According to a newsletter announcing Sammon's appearance, the fundraising dinner is the Monroe County Conservative Party's “primary source of funds which enables us to operate as an effective and respected political party.” [Media Matters, 2/8/11]
Sammon Wrote Several Fawning Books About Bush Campaigns, Administration
At Any Cost: How Al Gore Tried to Steal the Election. Sammon is the author of At Any Cost: How Al Gore Tried to Steal the Election (Regnery Publishing, 2001). According to Amazon.com, the book's inside flap reads in part:
Al Gore was furious. He wasn't supposed to lose.
Drawing on exhaustive, on-the-scene reporting and exclusive interviews with the key players -- including President George W. Bush and Vice President Richard B. Cheney -- Washington Times reporter Bill Sammon has written the definitive account of the most contentious presidential election in U.S. history.
At Any Cost is a breathtaking examination of Vice President Al Gore's audacious and unprecedented effort to overturn the presidential election. Desperate to forestall the spectacular collapse of his political career and determined to inflict as much damage as possible on Bush, Gore pulled out all the stops in an extraordinary, thirty-six day campaign of scorched-earth political warfare that propelled the nation to the brink of a constitutional crisis.
[...]
At Any Cost is a gripping, must-read account of the biggest attempted larceny in the history of American politics. [Amazon.com, accessed 3/29/11]
Fighting Back: The War on Terrorism From Inside the Bush White House. Sammon is the author of Fighting Back: The War on Terrorism-From Inside the Bush White House (Regnery Publishing, 2002). Regnery's promotional materials state of the book:
The First Book Ever on George W. Bush's Presidency... WARTIME PRESIDENT How Bush Led America Through “the Middle Hour of our Grief”
The Democrats underestimated him. The media ridiculed him. But when terror struck on September 11, 2001, George Bush proved what kind of man he truly is. And, as Bill Sammon recounts in his new book, that was just the beginning.
In Fighting Back, you get the first book ever on George W. Bush's presidency -- and the first comprehensive look at how Bush is leading the war on terror. From the moment when Andy Card whispered into his President's ear “Mr. President, America is under attack,” best-selling author Bill Sammon brings us an eye-witness account of that historic day, and the days that follow.
[...]
Fighting Back gives you an extraordinarily dramatic, blow-by-blow account of a President thrust into a new kind of war. It describes history in the making, and the emergence of a great leader. [Regnery.com, accessed 3/29/11]
Misunderestimated: The President Battles Terrorism, Media Bias, and the Bush Haters. Sammon is the author of Misunderestimated: The President Battles Terrorism, Media Bias, and the Bush Haters (HarperCollins, 2005). The publisher's promotional materials state of the book:
“They misunderestimated me,” George W. Bush famously remarked on the eve of his historic presidency. Fractured syntax aside, Bush was right: his detractors misunderstood his appeal to the American public, and underestimated his considerable political skills. In this compelling new book, Bill Sammon reveals how the president is turning these misperceptions to his advantage in the looming showdown with John Kerry and the Bush haters.
As senior White House correspondent for the Washington Times, Sammon has been granted extraordinary access to the president and his closest confidants, from political gurus Karl Rove and Andy Card to foreign policy advisers Colin Powell and Condoleezza Rice. The result is a compelling chronicle of the second eighteen months of George W. Bush's term, as the administration's focus shifts from al Qaeda and Afghanistan to Iraq and the 2004 election. Sammon's on-the-scene reporting and exclusive interviews with the president and his top advisers reveal how the White House is implementing the most profound shift in U.S. foreign policy in more than half a century, prompting an eminent Democratic historian to rank Bush alongside John Quincy Adams and Franklin Delano Roosevelt as one of America's “grand” strategists.
[...]
Misunderestimated also meticulously tracks the rise of the Bush haters, a disturbing political phenomenon that colors everything from the war on terrorism to the presidential campaign. The impact extends to the press, which Sammon exposes for racing to brand Operation Iraqi Freedom another Vietnam “quagmire” less than eighteen months after making the same blunder during the Afghan war. [HarperCollins.com, accessed 3/29/11]
Strategery: How George W. Bush Is Defeating Terrorists, Outwitting Democrats, and Confounding the Mainstream Media. Sammon is the author of Strategery: How George W. Bush Is Defeating Terrorists, Outwitting Democrats, and Confounding the Mainstream Media (Regnery Publishing, 2006). Regnery's promotional materials state of the book:
Strategery chronicles the perpetually “misunderestimated” president as he vanquishes John Kerry and then embarks on a breathtakingly audacious second-term agenda. He vows to rein in the judicial activism of a runaway Supreme Court, defeat the “Bush haters” who blame him for Hurricane Katrina, and, in his spare time, end tyranny around the globe. Strategery is a remarkably vivid portrait of the president as he is seldom seen.
[...]
Strategery is the third installment in a multi-volume set of New York Times bestsellers chronicling this unlikely yet historic presidency, written with verve and piercing insight by Bill Sammon, who has been granted unprecedented access to President Bush, Vice President Cheney, Karl Rove, and other senior White House officials. [Regnery.com, accessed 3/29/11]
The Evangelical President: George Bush's Struggle to Spread a Moral Democracy Throughout the World. Sammon is the author of The Evangelical President: George Bush's Struggle to Spread a Moral Democracy Throughout the World (Regnery Publishing, 2007). Regnery's promotional materials state of the book:
But through it all, Sammon shows that President Bush took the high road, fighting to spread moral democracy around the world while the low-minded press focused on Vice President Cheney's accidental shooting of a friend while hunting and Virginia senator George Allen's use of the word macaca on the campaign trail
[...]
The Evangelical President is an unforgettable glimpse of a president at war, supported by an evangelical belief that tyranny should be overthrown, democracy supported, and America defended, combined with a steely stubbornness to see those goals through. [Regnery.com, acessed 3/29/11]
Reviewers: Sammon Books Are “Conservative Polemic,” He Makes “No Secret Of His Admiration” Of Bush
Plain Dealer Review: At Any Cost Is “A Conservative Polemic,” A “Mean-Spirited Political Assessment.” In a June 24, 2001, review of At Any Cost for the Cleveland Plain Dealer, Sammon's former employer, Dylan Foley writes:
Bluntly put, 'At Any Cost' is a conservative polemic in which Sammon uses his reporting skills to advance his thesis that Al Gore and the Gore campaign used fraud and deceit to try to snatch the presidency from George W. Bush. The book is a mix of good journalism and mean-spirited political assessment of the Florida vote-counting scandals." He concludes: "In a college course 20 years from now, 'At Any Cost' would deserve a place on the syllabus as a conservative view of the Florida disgrace. It's a well-written book by an established journalist that would be an enjoyable book for conservative true believers. [Cleveland Plain Dealer, 6/24/01, accessed via Nexis]
Wash. Times Review: In Fighting Back, Sammon “Makes No Secret Of His Admiration Of The President.” In an October 27, 2002, review of Fighting Back for The Washington Times, Sammon's employer at the time, Roger Fontaine writes that in the book, Sammon “makes no secret of his admiration of the president -- which is fine -- there is plenty of the opposite from other journalists and pundits who don't fare too well in this account.” [The Washington Times, 10/27/02, accessed via Nexis]
Sammon's Publisher Exists To Prop Up Conservative Movement
Regnery States They Are “Central To The Conservative Movement Today.” From the “History of Regnery” posted at their website:
When the Henry Regnery Company first opened its doors in 1947, its mission was to contribute to the rebuilding of Western civilization after World War II, publishing serious works of cultural recovery, including, as it turned out, establishing and sustaining the postwar conservative intellectual movement in America.
[...]
The conservative movement has grown, over the last 62 years, from a few intellectuals, economists, editorial writers, and authors to become the most vibrant political and intellectual movement that the country has ever known. Regnery Publishing is as central to the conservative movement today, as it was nearly sixty two years ago when Henry Regnery helped start it. [Regnery.com, accessed 3/29/11]
Regnery Describes Itself As “The Nation's Preeminent Conservative Publisher.” From a letter posted by Regnery president and publisher Marji Ross:
Regnery Publishing, the nation's preeminent conservative publisher, is truly on a roll. Over the past three years we have produced no less than 25 bestsellers! Included in that list is the election-year blockbuster Unfit for Command, which reached #1 on the New York Times bestseller list. Other books to make the list include William F. Buckley Jr.'s autobiographical Miles Gone By, Richard Miniter's Shadow War, Robert “Buzz” Patterson's Reckless Disregard, David Horowitz's Unholy Alliance, and Rowan Scarborough's Rumsfeld's War. [Regnery.com, accessed 3/29/11]
