Videotranscripttranscript9 Dead in South Carolina WeatherGov. Nikki R. Haley of South Carolina confirmed that nine people had died in the extreme weather in the state and urged residents to be careful.NAGov. Nikki R. Haley of South Carolina confirmed that nine people had died in the extreme weather in the state and urged residents to be careful.CreditCredit...Gerry Broome/Associated PressOct. 5, 2015COLUMBIA, S.C. — The South Carolinians walked along the bridge over the Congaree River, hoods up against the pelting rain, their heads cast downward to marvel at the red-brown water churning violently below them.They had never seen the river so turbid. They had never seen it rise like this, up near the tips of the light poles of the river walk park that meanders along its western bank. They had never seen a hole like the one that blew through the side of the nearby Columbia Canal.Everywhere, it seemed, there was water where there should not have been. “It’s heartbreaking,” said Terry Carroll, 46, a carpenter and lifelong resident of the state, as he watched from an overlook on the Congaree’s east bank.On Monday, there was much that seemed broken in South Carolina — except for the rain. It was still steadily thrumming over much of the state, in some places for a fifth consecutive day.Water main ruptures and other problems had left about 40,000 people without water on Monday, Gov. Nikki R. Haley said. Dams had burst and homes had been submerged and ruined, especially in and around Columbia, the state capital. A spokeswoman for the Department of Public Safety, Sherri Iacobelli, said Monday night that the storm had killed 11 people in the state. Seven deaths were weather-related drownings, she said, and four others were traffic fatalities linked to the storm.Ms. Haley was calling it an unprecedented event in South Carolina, and everyone seemed to agree. Mr. Carroll said that this stretch of the Congaree, which flows just west of downtown and the University of South Carolina campus, was usually so placid and low that one could walk across it.ImageCredit...Mic Smith/FR2 AP, via Associated PressHere and elsewhere, emergency crews — who have already conducted hundreds of water rescues and at least 25 by air — were rushing Monday to search more homes, restore infrastructure and power, and deliver drinking water.The rain — the last throes of a pernicious storm system partly fed by moisture from Hurricane Joaquin, which in recent days has spun in the Atlantic far from the United States mainland — was expected to end Tuesday. But Ms. Haley, in an early afternoon news conference, warned that South Carolina’s desperate time could be prolonged by record amounts of rain that had already fallen in much of the state, and must now flow toward the ocean.“This is not over just because the rain stops,” she said. “It does not mean that we are out of the woods.”In historic Charleston, Columbia’s coastal cousin to the south, the worst of the storms appeared to have passed Monday, after days of frayed nerves and waterlogged streets.“I think the city is getting back to normal,” Mayor Joseph P. Riley Jr. said in a phone interview, noting that trash trucks ran on their Monday routes and sections of only two dozen streets were impassable. The Historic Charleston City Market, the four-block commercial hall for tourists, opened Monday morning, and retailers nearby were grumbling about the money they had lost on what should have been a busy tourist weekend.But at her news conference a few hours later, Ms. Haley emphasized that a large part of the state still faced problems. “We are still very much in response mode when it comes to the Midlands down to the coast,” she said.ImageCredit...Sean Rayford/Getty ImagesIn the Columbia area, potable water had become a precious commodity, even for those whose houses had not been damaged. Many residents who had water had been told to boil it. Others, on private wells, were worried that they would lose electricity, and thus the ability to pump.“No water?” asked Theresa Bartley, 73, a shopper at the Bi-Lo grocery store Monday afternoon in the suburb of Cayce, to Columbia’s southwest.Correct, came the reply. Sold out.“Excuse me, y’all out of water, yeah?” asked Weldon Johnson, 58, at the Dollar General next door. Correct. Sold out.“We’ve just got single bottles, hon,” said a clerk at the Family Dollar across the street, pointing toward a rare stash of about a dozen bottles at the bottom of a small cooler.In Hopkins, a town southeast of Columbia, the line for clean water outside Lower Richland High School was already 40 or 50 people deep Monday afternoon when cellphones began to sound their alarms: The authorities had issued a civil emergency message. Speculation spread that a dam had been breached.The school was one of four water distribution centers that Ms. Haley had promised. Six more will be ready by Tuesday, she said.ImageCredit...Russ Bynum/Associated PressMany of the waiting residents said they, too, had tried to find water at grocery stores. As they waited, they traded stories of what they had seen on the news, or how they were already in battles with their insurance companies about leaking roofs or fallen trees.They quickly learned that their drinking water problems would not be easily solved, either.“The deal right now is 5 o’clock,” a National Guard captain shouted to the crowd at one point.The muffled groans began — and then the captain dropped more bad news: He did not know if the water would be delivered in bottles, or whether residents would need their own containers.“It wasn’t expected to be this bad,” said Henry Caison, who lives in Columbia. “I would have bought water, but it went out all of a sudden.”The authorities said that 25 shelters had opened statewide, housing more than 900 people. Eva Gadsden, a 72-year-old retired nurse, found herself among rows of cots Monday at St. Andrews Middle School here, nibbling on a disaster lunch special: a peanut butter sandwich and potato chips, along with a pouch of something called “tropical punch flavored juice drink.”The rains had fallen all day Sunday over Ms. Gadsden’s apartment complex, but she figured the biggest problems were elsewhere. She was showering just before dinner when she heard shouts at her door.“Get out! Get out!” a police officer yelled. “The water is coming in your apartment!”The authorities took Ms. Gadsden to four other shelters, she said, before she ended up at this one. The others were having their own water problems, she said.The experience was illustrative of the response here — an improvisation, sometimes disorganized, but with a spirit of solidarity and neighborliness that Ms. Haley often trumpets as a hallmark of her state of 4.8 million people.As the evening progressed, Columbia’s TV channels were full of images of upended cars and reports of dam breaks and mandatory evacuations. A curfew was to be in effect in Columbia from 7 p.m. Monday to 6 a.m. Tuesday.Soon after Mr. Carroll expressed his heartbreak overlooking the overrun Congaree, a small group of women were seen jogging a few yards away on Meeting Street, ponytails swinging behind them. It has been like that in much of South Carolina: “It ranges from, ‘What’s the big deal?’ to ‘Close to apocalyptic,’ “ said Joel Sawyer, a longtime South Carolina Republican consultant.As Ms. Gadsden looked toward a night in her cot at the Columbia shelter, she said she expected to have “lost everything” to the storm.“I have Christ Jesus, and with him, I’m able to stand,” she said. “We’ll wait for the water to go down and try to come back and pick up the pieces.”In Charleston, the restaurant Husk, a lauded temple of New South fine dining, had finally opened and was preparing to receive its first dinner crowd in three days.“I think we’re just sick of the rain,” said Haley Oliver, 22, a hostess. “We’re ready to see sunshine.”