    
Francis urges lawmakers to work together in a historic papal address. 
Pope Francis stood before a bitterly divided Congress on Thursday and reminded lawmakers of that most golden of rules, “Do unto others as you would have them do unto you.”
Those "others," the pope made it clear to the chagrin of some Republicans, include immigrants, the impoverished, political rivals and the Earth itself. In white robes that glowed against the backdrop, and flanked by two former altar boys — House Speaker John Boehner and Vice President Joe Biden — the Roman Catholic leader urged lawmakers to cooperate and remember their responsibilities to their fellow citizens, adding: "Legislative activity is always based on care for the people."
The speech — the first by a pope to a joint meeting of Congress — combined words of faith with unmistakable political and policy appeals and it offered something to like for each of America’s two main political parties. But overall, with their strong emphasis on the environment and welcoming immigrants, calls to end the death penalty and the arms trade, and relatively brief and opaque references to stopping gay marriage and abortion, Francis' words clearly cheered Democrats more than Republicans.
As the speech wore on, the partisan divides in Congress became more apparent, with many Republicans either not clapping or not standing when the pope discussed immigration and climate change. Republicans were quick to stand and clap when the pope mentioned the need to protect life, but seemed stunned when he then immediately called for an end to the death penalty, which instead drew cheers from some Democrats.
The Argentine-born Francis spoke softly and somewhat haltingly in English, a language he is not that familiar with, reading through spectacles from a prepared paper text. Behind him, Biden and Boehner at times appeared visibly moved.
Francis invoked four figures from American history — Abraham Lincoln; the Rev. Martin Luther King Jr.; Catholic social justice leader Dorothy Day; and the Cistercian monk Thomas Merton — to both praise the United States ("a land of dreams") but also urge it to live up to its global challenges.
He warned against not just religious extremism but "every form of polarization, which would divide it into two camps” — a potential reference to the deep partisanship in the U.S. legislature, which is on the verge of spurring a potential government shutdown. In a line he reportedly skipped over by accident but which was in his prepared remarks, Francis also appeared to ever-so-subtly rebuke the U.S. campaign finance system, saying, “If politics must truly be at the service of the human person, it follows that it cannot be a slave to the economy and finance.”
The House chamber was packed with lawmakers and their guests, who gave the pontiff an enthusiastic standing ovation when he arrived. Outside, thousands of people gathered on the West Lawn of the Capitol to see the 78-year-old Catholic leader, who appeared on a balcony to wave after his speech to Congress.
The pope, speaking in Spanish through a microphone to that massive crowd, asked God to bless those present. "I ask you all, please, to pray for me,'' Francis added, "and if there are any of you who do not believe, or cannot pray, I ask you please to send good wishes my way.''
The pope's address to Congress devoted considerable time to the idea of giving people opportunities, and he praised King's campaign for equality for African-Americans, saying "that dream continues to inspire us all." Francis linked the late pastor's dream to the need to aid the migrants and asylum-seekers of today, reminding his influential audience that they, too, are descended from immigrants who helped build America. Amid ongoing debates in Congress and on the 2016 presidential campaign trail about immigration — a discussion that, thanks to Republican candidate Donald Trump, has prompted calls for a border wall and mass deportations — Francis urged compassion for Latin Americans who head to the United States in search of better opportunities.
“We must not be taken aback by their numbers but rather view them as persons, seeing their faces and listening to their stories, trying to respond as best we can to their situation,” he said to applause from some lawmakers. “We need to avoid a common temptation nowadays: to discard whatever proves troublesome.”
Francis also emphasized the need to battle climate change, another issue that has put Republicans and Democrats at loggerheads, saying he had “no doubt that the United States — and this Congress — have an important role to play” in averting “the most serious effects of the environmental deterioration caused by human activity.”
To an audience visibly divided on the issue, Francis cited his recent encyclical on the environment, saying it was possible to put technology “at the service of another type of progress, one which is healthier, more human, more social, more integral.” He added, “I am confident that America’s outstanding academic and research institutions can make a vital contribution in the years ahead.”
The pope, who has criticized unbridled capitalism in the past — only to be accused by Republicans and other conservatives of knowing nothing about Western capitalism because he grew up in Argentina, a nation that has experienced many political and economic upheavals — acknowledged the tremendous progress the world has made in lifting people out of poverty, noting “it goes without saying that part of this great effort is the creation and distribution of wealth,” and that “business is a noble vocation.” But he also encouraged his audience to “keep in mind all those people around us who are trapped in a cycle of poverty.”
In his discussion of the Golden Rule, Francis briefly alluded to abortion by mentioning “our responsibility to protect and defend human life at every stage of its development.” But from there he quickly pivoted to his goal of abolishing the death penalty, “since every life is sacred.”
In describing the importance of promoting dialogue over war, Francis obliquely referenced the recent rapprochement between the U.S. and Cuba, which he helped broker but which has left many Republicans fuming. He then turned to the need to stop the arms trade, wondering, “Why are deadly weapons being sold to those who plan to inflict untold suffering on individuals and society? Sadly, the answer, as we all know, is simply for money: money that is drenched in blood, often innocent blood.”
Francis spent much of the end of his speech discussing the importance of the family, using only veiled references to the growing legal and cultural acceptance of gay marriage as a cause of concern. But in discussing threats “from within and without,” he made it clear that he had broader worries about the disintegration of the traditional family.
“At the risk of oversimplifying, we might say that we live in a culture which pressures young people not to start a family, because they lack possibilities for the future. Yet this same culture presents others with so many options that they too are dissuaded from starting a family,” the pope said.
Toward the end, he urged the U.S. to live up to its ideals that allow people to dream, defend liberty, help the oppressed and sow peace. “It is my desire that this spirit continue to develop and grow so that as many young people as possible can inherit and dwell in a land which has inspired so many people to dream,” he said, before ending with a “God bless America!” that drew a standing ovation. 