Credit...William Widmer for The New York TimesOct. 15, 2015Establishment-backed presidential candidates in both parties, facing stronger-than-expected challenges from insurgent campaigns, are rapidly losing one of their few remaining advantages in politics: money.In the Republican and Democratic primaries alike, upstart candidates shunned by their parties’ major donors are now financially competitive with — and, in some cases, vastly outraising — opponents who have spent months or even years wooing the big-name donors and fund-raisers who have traditionally dominated the money race.The shift is most striking in the Republican contest, where Ben Carson, a retired neurosurgeon, reported raising by far the most cash, $20 million, in the three months ending Sept. 30. Senator Ted Cruz of Texas raised $12 million, and Carly Fiorina, a former Hewlett-Packard executive, raised about $7 million. All of them increased or held steady their average weekly cash intake over the previous quarter.By contrast, the two Republicans favored most by the party elite reported substantial declines in fund-raising. Former Gov. Jeb Bush of Florida, who raised $11.4 million in the two weeks after his official campaign announcement in June, took in $13.4 million in the next three months, according to his campaign reports. Senator Marco Rubio of Florida raised $6 million, and Gov. Chris Christie of New Jersey $4.2 million. Senator Rand Paul of Kentucky, a libertarian Republican, raised $2.5 million.During the same period, two Republicans with strong ties to the party’s donor elite — Gov. Scott Walker of Wisconsin and former Gov. Rick Perry of Texas — were forced out of the race for lack of cash.Those departures were a stark reminder of the dangers for candidates who rely heavily on “super PACs.” Outside groups have stockpiled tens of millions of dollars on behalf of establishment candidates such as Mr. Bush and Mr. Rubio, most of it destined to be spent on television advertising. But those groups cannot cover the candidates’ core expenses, such as staff salaries, plane tickets, polling and office rent. Mr. Cruz and Mr. Carson lead the Republican field in cash on hand for the primary, with about $12 million for Mr. Cruz and $11 million for Mr. Carson, according to filings with the Federal Election Commission. Mr. Bush and Mr. Rubio each appeared to have about $10 million. Mr. Bush also had more than $400,000 in debt.The billionaire real estate mogul Donald J. Trump, subsidized by a seemingly endless wave of free news and television coverage, raised about $4 million, including $100,000 of in-kind donations to himself, and spent slightly more. The numbers suggest that Mr. Trump is no longer a self-funding candidate, but rather is running his campaign like everyone else, with money from his supporters.On the Democratic side, Hillary Rodham Clinton, who secured commitments from many of the party’s biggest donors before she even announced her candidacy, barely outraised Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont, a self-described socialist, bringing in half as much money a week during the three months ending Sept. 30 as she had earlier in the campaign. Mrs. Clinton began October with more than $31 million on hand for the primary, compared with about $27 million for Mr. Sanders. Mrs. Clinton also reported more than $647,000 in debt. Mr. Sanders raised more than three-quarters of his funds from donors giving less than $200 each, according to his disclosures, and fewer than 300 gave the maximum allowed contribution of $2,700. “The narrative earlier this year about how money matters is being flushed,” said Scott W. Reed, the senior political strategist for the United States Chamber of Commerce. “Six out of 10 primary voters are supporting outsider candidates. A socialist raised $25 million in the same period a libertarian raised $2.5 million — a 10-to-1 surprise fund-raising advantage.”The steady fund-raising of outsider candidates, who have tapped into a network of smaller donors, suggests a financial paradigm shift in both parties, but particularly on the right, where candidates beloved by the Republicans’ socially conservative and evangelical base have sometimes struggled to muster the financial resources to sustain a long-term campaign for the nomination.“I think we are in an unprecedented moment in the Republican Party,” said Ed Martin, the president of the Eagle Forum, a conservative grass-roots organization. “The conservative wing is ascendant and has figured out how to compete — how to raise the money and build the infrastructure. And I think the establishment has run out of a little steam.”But the shift also reflects insurgent candidates’ successful exploitation of online and small-donor fund-raising during a period when the dominance of Mr. Trump sowed doubt and uncertainty among the Republican Party’s donor class.Mrs. Clinton and Mr. Bush have kept up grueling schedules of fund-raisers, with Mr. Bush’s campaign holding at least 58 events over 90 days ending in September. Mr. Cruz’s campaign, by contrast, said that 6,000 of his small contributors had pledged to make recurring donations every month — providing enough cash flow, with no fund-raising appearances necessary, to cover Mr. Cruz’s expenses in the first four primary states, as well as in others where the campaign has set up operations.“There is tremendous power among these donors,” said John Pudner, a former campaign manager for Representative Dave Brat of Virginia — the conservative who unseated Eric Cantor, then the No. 2 Republican in the House, in 2014 — who now heads a conservative group that looks to empower small donors. “I think they’re realizing that they can be a counterbalance, particularly social conservatives.”ImageCredit...Charlie Neibergall/Associated PressThe reliance on small donors does not always come without a cost. Mr. Carson has relied heavily on expensive direct mail and telemarketing consultants to raise money, driving up his burn rate: Of the $14 million he spent during the third quarter alone, fund-raising costs totaled $11 million, according to his campaign. But Mr. Rubio and Mr. Bush spent at an even higher rate, $4 of every $5 raised, in the three months ending Sept. 30. Mr. Cruz raised most of his small-donor money online, according to figures provided by his campaign, suggesting a sustainable financial model for the months ahead.Terry Giles, who was Mr. Carson’s campaign manager and now advises super PACs supporting him, said that Mr. Carson and other upstart candidates, including Mr. Sanders on the left, had benefited in their fund-raising from public distaste for establishment politicians.“Political endorsements mean nothing,” Mr. Giles said. “If anything, they just turn people off. It’s a whole new ballgame.”The insurgents’ rise is likely to make their rivals even more dependent on super PACs and other groups. While super PACs are not required to disclose updated fund-raising totals until January, groups backing Mr. Rubio and Mr. Bush have reported raising at least $140 million in unlimited contributions. Mr. Rubio, reflecting his straitened finances, has relied for television advertising on a nonprofit group, Conservative Solutions, which does not disclose its donors.Mr. Cruz is the only one of the candidates emphasizing their outsider status who has succeeded in the super PAC realm: Groups backing him have raised at least $38 million. (Of that, $15 million came from the Wilks family, who earned billions of dollars in the fracking boom and are staunch opponents of abortion and same-sex marriage.) Mr. Carson is now scrambling to catch up: Advisers to his super PAC held a donor gathering at a Texas ranch last weekend, and Mr. Giles said the group expected large financial commitments in the weeks ahead.“You’re going to see significant money coming to Carson’s camp,” he said.Robert Borosage, a director of the Campaign for America’s Future, a liberal advocacy group, said that Mr. Sanders’s ability to raise money by positioning himself as an outsider reminded him of President Obama’s 2008 campaign, which received millions of dollars in small contributions.He said Mr. Sanders had “capitalized on the fervor of the anti-establishment movement.”Noting that Mr. Sanders has renounced super PAC support, Mr. Borosage added that he “will never have as much money as Hillary, but what’s clear is that he will have enough money to be competitive.”