Credit...Scott Olson/Getty ImagesOct. 23, 2015A beleaguered Jeb Bush slashed his campaign spending. Donald J. Trump lost his lead in Iowa. And a surging Ben Carson galvanized his support among social conservatives.With Hillary Rodham Clinton emerging as the unrivaled leader in the Democratic contest, the unruly Republican presidential field suddenly seemed to lack a center of political gravity on Friday, leaving party strategists and voters to fear a long nomination fight that could end with a damaged standard-bearer facing a more unified left.Mr. Bush cut salaries, fired consultants and laid off or reassigned many campaign workers. It was the latest sign that contenders vying for support from moderates and the party’s establishment are all but running on fumes — exhausting their cash, or the patience of their supporters, but barely moving in the polls.Mr. Trump, for months a leading candidate, has now fallen behind in Iowa to Mr. Carson, a retired neurosurgeon, raising questions about how aggressively he will act to reverse his sagging poll numbers. And Mr. Carson, whose fund-raising has roughly kept pace with his climb in the polls, is moving to run television commercials in Iowa, New Hampshire and South Carolina, positioning himself to influence the outcomes in those states and others if he manages to continue locking down evangelical Christian voters.Yet amid the tumult on the right, the contours of the state-by-state fight for the Republican nomination have also become more apparent.In Iowa, where Republicans have crowned Christian conservatives in the last two caucuses, the most intense competition is for the support of hard-line Republicans among Mr. Trump, Mr. Carson and Senator Ted Cruz of Texas. Whoever emerges as the victor among these voters, many of whom dislike traditional politicians, will be strongly positioned to break out as the favored candidate among the same bloc of conservatives in later states.ImageCredit...David Becker/Getty ImagesAnd with Mr. Bush scaling back and focusing more intensely on the New Hampshire primary, he has helped ensure its role as a decisive, perhaps do-or-die test for his candidacy and those of other center-right hopefuls like Gov. John R. Kasich of Ohio.More immediately, the Republicans’ third debate, on Wednesday night, now looms as a potentially decisive moment for several candidates — above all Mr. Bush, whose performances have been lackluster so far, and whose staid, sober manner is proving an ill fit with voter discontent with long-serving elected officials.Wobbliness in the earlier debates helped drive former Gov. Rick Perry of Texas and Gov. Scott Walker of Wisconsin from the Republican race as supporters lost faith and the candidates failed to redirect staff and resources quickly enough to recover, as Mr. Bush is trying to do now.Mr. Bush has more resources, including support from a “super PAC” with nearly $100 million on hand, but he has been spending heavily and needs a strong showing to reassure his donors and give clearer reasons for voters to support him.“The Republican camp is in total disarray,” said Edward J. Rollins, a veteran Republican strategist, who lamented the prospect of several more sprawling debates that fail to narrow the field, saying that Mr. Trump’s “reality show antics” would get in the way of the winnowing that needs to occur, and the sooner the better. “A long, dragged-out battle on our side only makes it more difficult to get ready for Hillary,” he said.In Miami, where Mr. Bush’s campaign is based, aides were on edge Friday. Many were waiting to hear whether they would receive pay cuts, be sent to an early state or laid off entirely. The mood was brighter among those already in early states, who have been seeking more of Mr. Bush’s time and now will apparently get it. According to an internal memo, first reported Friday by Bloomberg News, Mr. Bush plans to reduce payroll costs by 40 percent this week and cut travel spending by 20 percent.ImageCredit...Win Mcnamee/Getty ImagesMr. Bush dismissed many of his fund-raising consultants, retaining only a handful from large states.Some Bush strategists grumbled about what they described as an excessively large infrastructure at the headquarters. One department that will be particularly thinned out, advisers said, is the group of video producers and editors, called “Jeb TV,” that was assembled for what had been a robust digital effort.“We will be working with staff today and going through each person’s situation, but expect sizable changes,” Danny Diaz, Mr. Bush’s campaign manager, said by email.Mr. Bush, campaigning Friday in Virginia Beach, insisted that the shake-up was not ominous.“This means lean and mean, and it means that I have the ability to adapt,” he said, pointing to Mr. Trump’s unexpected rise. “Every dollar we can save in overhead is a dollar that goes on television, goes on radio, goes on media, goes on voter outreach.”While Mr. Bush is in poor shape now in Iowa, which holds the first-in-the-nation nominating contest on Feb. 1, the dynamics of the race there are hardly settled. Mr. Trump led polls of Iowa Republicans for 78 days, but a remarkable shift occurred on Thursday and Friday as Mr. Carson surged ahead in back-to-back polls, largely by consolidating the support of Christian conservatives.Mr. Trump’s slide undercuts a key part of his sales pitch on the campaign trail: That opinion polls prove he is the most popular and formidable Republican in the presidential race.“Do we love these polls?” Mr. Trump asked a crowd at a rally on Wednesday in Burlington, Iowa. “Somebody said, ‘You love polls.’ I said that’s only because I’ve been winning every single one of them. Right? Right? Every single poll.” He added that, “very importantly,” he was “winning big” in Iowa.At a rally Friday night at the Trump National Doral Miami resort in Doral, Fla., Mr. Trump bragged about his poll numbers in a variety of states.He acknowledged “bad news” in the form of the new Iowa polls, but described himself as “a great Christian,” blamed the news media for blowing the polls out of proportion and asserted that the pollsters behind those surveys “do not like me.”“Believe me, I’m not dropping out of anything,” Mr. Trump said. “I love Iowa, and I honestly think those polls are wrong.”Sounding like a newscaster, he also jabbed Mr. Carson. “We have a breaking story: Donald Trump has fallen to second place behind Ben Carson,” Mr. Trump said. “We informed Ben, but he was sleeping.” He derided Mr. Carson as “super low energy.”Whether Mr. Trump will now start spending heavily from his personal fortune on his campaign, as he has said he would do, remains unclear: He has donated roughly $1.9 million of his own money, and he has yet to spend on television. Weeks ago, his advisers said Mr. Trump had hired a media firm in Florida that normally does not work for political clients, boasting proudly of his unconventional thinking. But they have refused to identify the firm, and Mr. Trump has continued to interview additional media consultants.Corey Lewandowski, Mr. Trump’s campaign manager, was emphatic that the candidate would not retreat from Iowa.“We’re going to compete every place, all the time, forever,” Mr. Lewandowski said.But when asked if Mr. Trump had settled on a contingency plan if his numbers in Iowa continue to erode, Mr. Lewandowski said, “It’s not that he hasn’t decided, it’s that he hasn’t shared this information.”Mr. Carson has slowly but steadily emerged as a soft-spoken alternative to the fiery Mr. Trump among Republicans fed up with politicians and craving an outsider. A focus group of Republicans in Indianapolis this week, conducted for the nonpartisan Annenberg Public Policy Center, called Mr. Trump “self-serving” and “disturbing.” In contrast, Mr. Carson was called “wise” and “a gentleman.”“It’s like a moth to the flame,” said the pollster Peter D. Hart, who conducted the focus group, of Mr. Trump’s supporters. “They’re drawn there, but all of a sudden, as they look closer, they say: ‘No, no, no. I’m backing away.’ ”In New Hampshire, meanwhile, Mr. Bush is drawing inspiration from another candidate who also struggled with money troubles — Senator John McCain of Arizona. Several times in recent weeks, Mr. Bush has recalled an encounter with Mr. McCain at the Atlanta airport during the 2008 presidential primary campaign.“He’s carrying his bag, he has no aide, he’s running for president, he has no staff,” Mr. Bush said in New Hampshire last month. “The campaign was basically over. Everybody said it. All the pundits said, ‘It’s over; why waste your time?’ ”But Mr. McCain persisted, Mr. Bush said, implicitly making an analogy-cum-prediction for his own predicament.“He won New Hampshire, he won Florida, he won the nomination, and he should have been president,” Mr. Bush said.