VideotranscripttranscriptObama on Day 2 of Climate TalksPresident Obama spoke on Tuesday at a news conference in Paris, where he also met with leaders of five small island nations as part of the summit meeting on climate change.OECD - AP CLIENTS ONLY
Paris, 1 December 2015
SOUNDBITE (English) Barack Obama, US President:
“We seek an agreement that gives businesses and investors the certainty that the global economy is on a firm path towards a low-carbon future because that will spur the kind of investment that will be vital to combine reduced emissions with economic growth and that’s the goal - not just an agreement to roll back the pollution that threatens our planet but an agreement that helps our economies grow, and our people to thrive without condemning the next generation to a planet that is beyond its capacity to repair. Now all of this will be hard. Getting 200 nations to agree on anything is hard and I am sure there will be moments over the next two weeks where progress seems stymied and everyone rushes to write that we are doomed. But I am convinced that we’re going to get big things done here.”President Obama spoke on Tuesday at a news conference in Paris, where he also met with leaders of five small island nations as part of the summit meeting on climate change.CreditCredit...Stephen Crowley/The New York TimesDec. 1, 2015LE BOURGET, France — President Obama said Tuesday that despite repeated meetings with President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia on efforts to defeat the Islamic State, no one should be “under any illusions” that Russian forces would now start attacking the extremist group’s positions in Syria.The Russians have been deeply involved in propping up the government of the Syrian president, Bashar al-Assad, Mr. Obama said, adding that he believed their commitment to Mr. Assad was not going to shift anytime soon.He added that weeks of Russian airstrikes in the region had not led to substantial changes in the Syrian conflict and he said that at some point, Mr. Putin would recognize that he did not want to be involved in another quagmire.On Mr. Obama’s last day at the international climate conference here, he and members of his administration also met with President Recep Tayyip Erdogan of Turkey at the residence of the United States ambassador here, a small palace that once was the home of Edmond James de Rothschild.ImageCredit...Stephen Crowley/The New York TimesEven though the two leaders had met two weeks ago at the Group of 20 summit meeting in Antalya, Turkey, Mr. Obama said another meeting was warranted in light of recent events in Syria and the shooting down of a Russian warplane by Turkey.“I want to be very clear: Turkey is a NATO ally,” Mr. Obama said. “Along with our allies, the United States supports Turkey’s right to defend itself and its airspace and its territory. And we’re very much committed to Turkey’s security and its sovereignty.”Mr. Obama said that he and Mr. Erdogan discussed how to ease tension between Russia and Turkey, to address the threat posed by the Islamic State and to bring about a political resolution in Syria. Mr. Obama also praised Turkey, which is estimated to have taken in more than one million Syrians, for its “extraordinary generosity” in its support of refugees.In his remarks, Mr. Erdogan said the two leaders had discussed the Islamic State, also known as ISIS or ISIL; establishing a transitional government in Syria; protecting the lives of Syrians of Turkish descent; and the tension with Russia.“We want peace to prevail at all costs,” Mr. Erdogan said.As meetings unfolded in France, there was widespread speculation that the next round of talks aimed at ending the Syrian civil war could occur next in New York in mid-December, diplomats here said, as long as the latest tensions between Russia and Turkey could be eased. The Vienna talks, named for the city where they began, were hailed as an example of a new resolve to hammer out a peace deal.The momentum for an accord was spurred by the Paris terrorist attacks in mid-November but threatened by Turkey’s shooting down of a Russian military jet last week. Diplomatic tensions followed, and Mr. Obama has spoken with the leaders of both countries in Paris in recent days.“We have not seen this kind of momentum around the diplomatic and political track in a very long time, and arguably ever,” Samantha Power, the United States ambassador to the United Nations, said at a news conference Tuesday afternoon. She would not confirm if the meeting would take place in New York, saying only that the United States wanted the next round of talks to take place in December and that it was “open to a number of different venues, one of which is New York.” If the talks can take place, diplomats said, they would send an important signal that tensions between Russia and Turkey have not quashed the newfound momentum against the Islamic State. The parties at the table in two rounds of talks in Vienna in late October and mid-November included the United States and Russia, along with the regional rivals Iran and Saudi Arabia, as well as Turkey. All have deep stakes in the war. The next session is tentatively scheduled for Dec. 18. Russia has proposed a Security Council measure to strengthen restrictions on those who trade in oil and other goods with the Islamic State. Russia’s ambassador to the United Nations, Vitaly I. Churkin, told The Associated Press on Tuesday that the resolution would be a follow-up to a Russian-sponsored resolution, adopted unanimously on Feb. 12, that was aimed at halting illicit oil sales, trading in antiquities and ransom payments for hostages, all crucial methods used by extremist groups to finance terrorist operations.