    
The communications director for Hillary Clinton's campaign tweeted that while the candidate would not be responding to Donald Trump's remarks, "everyone who understands the humiliation this degrading language inflicts on all women should." | AP Photo The Clinton campaign says it isn’t responding to Donald Trump’s personal attacks on Hillary Clinton from Monday night, but it still tried to shame the Republican poll leader for the remarks and encouraged others to stand with Clinton. “We are not responding to Trump but everyone who understands the humiliation this degrading language inflicts on all women should. #imwithher,” Clinton's communications director, Jennifer Palmieri, tweeted Tuesday morning. And later, Clinton spokeswoman Karen Finney hit Trump by tweeting, "Resorting to disgusting sexist slurs is not leadership Mr. Trump."
The quasi-response comes after Trump’s attacks on the former secretary of state hit a new level of intimacy.
In Grand Rapids, Michigan, on Monday night, Trump talked about the “disgusting” bathroom trip Clinton made during the debate and said she was “schlonged” by President Barack Obama during the 2008 primaries. Attacking Clinton isn’t new for Trump. He often talks about the scandal over her exclusive use of private email while she was secretary of state, mocks her pantsuits, and insinuates she is a lesbian with her aide Huma Abedin. But these latest remarks come after a particularly nasty back-and-forth that began during the Democratic debate Saturday, when Clinton said, “He is becoming ISIS's best recruiter. They are going to people showing videos of Donald Trump insulting Islam and Muslims in order to recruit more radical jihadists."
No such videos have been found, and Trump has repeatedly demanded an apology, to which the Clinton campaign Monday responded “hell no.” The Republican candidates have been slow to react to Trump's latest attack on Clinton. Ted Cruz, who has been reluctant to condemn Trump in recent months, again declined to do so on Tuesday during a rally in Tennessee. "You know what, there are an abundance of political pundits in the world who, like Statler and Waldorf, assess every comment every candidate makes," Cruz said. "I don't need to be another political pundit. I'm gonna let Donald Trump speak for himself. I'm gonna speak for myself. And I'm gonna focus on my positive, optimistic conservative vision for this country."
Republican candidate Mike Huckabee also tried to hit Clinton for the bathroom delay, joking Tuesday that she should have stayed there. “Quite frankly, I thought Hillary’s best moment the entire night was when she was in the restroom, not on the stage, and maybe [she] should’ve stayed there and it would’ve been her, perhaps, shining moment through the whole debate,” Huckabee told radio host David Webb on XM radio. 