 Forecasting political trends is almost an American pastime. So is getting those forecasts woefully wrong. Politico Magazine has published an annual worst political predictions list twice before, but we’ve never had quite the fodder that we did this year. In the 2016 presidential race, one presumed front-runner after another fell to the bottom of the polls; a reality TV star is currently as admired as the pope; and a socialist and a retired neurosurgeon gained massive followings. In Washington, a man who once wanted to give his “undivided attention” to the Ways and Means Committee is now speaker of the House; and a president about to enter his final year and facing a hostile Congress reached deals on climate change, Iran’s nuclear program and international trade. Of course, we can’t blame political pundits for being wrong in a year so full of surprises; but that won’t stop us from having some fun calling them out. Herewith, the political predictions gone wrong in 2015.
*** Meerkat will change politics forever.
Dan Pfeiffer, Medium, March 18, 2015: “Everywhere I have gone here at South by Southwest, from the convention center to the food trucks, people are talking about Meerkat. And if that same discussion is not happening at every media outlet and presidential campaign around the country, they are making a huge mistake.”
Lance Ulanoff of Mashable, as quoted on Fox News, March 25, 2015: “This [Meerkat] is here to stay.” The app, which allowed anybody to start or watch a live streaming video from their phone, from anywhere in the world, quickly rocketed to the top of the app charts after its release in February. But mere weeks after Meerkat’s launch, Twitter bought a competing app called Periscope, which also had the added feature of replaying live streams once they were done, for almost $100 million and began promoting it. This graph visualizes how Meerkat downloads virtually stopped while Periscope continuously surged.
Joe Biden will run for president. Jamie Weinstein, Daily Caller, June 26, 2015: “At this point, it’s hard to imagine Joe Biden not entering the race for the White House. … [T]he logic of his candidacy keeps getting more compelling by the day. Here are three reasons why Biden will likely soon announce his entrance into the race … 1.) Hillary is vulnerable … 2.) There’s no obvious alternative to Hillary in the Democratic race yet … 3.) His son’s death.” Bill Kristol, Twitter, Aug. 22, 2015: "Prediction: Biden will announce on September 7 after marching with cheering crowds in annual Wilmington AFL-CIO Labor Day parade."
Bill Kristol, Twitter, Oct. 5, 2015: "Isn't best window for @JoeBiden between Dem debate (Oct 13) and Hillary's Benghazi testimony (Oct 22)? I'm saying Biden announces Oct 19."
Bill Kristol, Twitter, Oct. 16, 2015: I continue to think Biden will run--and that he can beat Hillary."
Bill Kristol, Twitter, Oct. 20, 2015: "Biden confirms to Obama at lunch today he's running, announces at U Delaware tomorrow. You can feel the Joementum!"
The political world deliberated for months about whether Biden would run for president a third time. But even though Bill Kristol could feel the Joementum, Biden couldn’t. In October, he decided he was “out of time” to launch a viable campaign. Elizabeth Warren will run for president. David Frum, the Atlantic, January 13, 2015: “Elizabeth Warren can run for president. She should run for president. And despite her denials, she probably will. … Warren's got nothing to gain from staying put in the Senate except drudgery, ineffectuality and humiliation."
In the end, Warren stayed true to her denials, opting to remain in the Senate instead of running for president. The movement encouraging her to run eventually suspended its campaign. Mitt Romney will run for president again (and will win).
Representative Jason Chaffetz, MSNBC, July 7, 2014: “I happen to be in the camp that thinks [Romney’s] actually going to run, and I think he will be the next president of the United States.”
Back in January, Mitt Romney scheduled a donor call that led many to believe he was about to announce a third run for president. Both Bloomberg and the Daily Beast reported that Romney was indeed running—but within hours the real reason for the donor call had been reported: Romney was not launching another campaign.
(Others rumored to be running included Ohio Senator Rob Portman, Indiana Governor Mike Pence, Michigan Governor Rick Snyder and Wisconsin Representative Paul Ryan. Needless to say, none of them did.)
Scott Walker will be the Republican nominee. Aaron Goldstein, the American Spectator, July 15, 2015: “While this field is quite crowded, I believe it will soon become apparent that Scott Walker stands out head and shoulders above the rest. Here are the six reasons why I believe Walker will not only win the GOP nomination, but be elected President in November 2016.”
Kevin Drum, Mother Jones, November 19, 2014: “All this is a long way of explaining why I think Scott Walker is the frontrunner. He has a record of governance. His persona is generally adult. He doesn't say crazy stuff. Relatively speaking, he's attractive to moderates. But at the same time, the tea partiers love him too. … Predictions are hard, especially about the future. But if he runs, I rate Walker a favorite right now.”
Alan Greenblatt, Politico, July 12, 2015: “Plenty of Republicans don’t want to vote for Jeb Bush. The same cannot be said about Wisconsin Gov. Scott Walker. That’s why this understated and under-known Midwesterner could rise up and beat not just expectations but the entire field. In fact, Walker could plausibly clinch the nomination without losing a single early state.”
At first, Walker was considered an obvious front-runner, one of the few candidates capable of uniting the GOP’s Tea Party and establishment wings. The conservative Wisconsin governor got off to a promising start, leading polls in Iowa for several months early in the year. But eventually, his disappointing debate performances and murky policy positions got the better of him, and after he plummeted in the polls, blew through all his campaign cash and upset donors, all was over; he dropped out in September. Trump won’t run. Or, if he does, it won’t matter. Donald Trump, Oprah, April 25, 1988: Oprah Winfrey: “Would you ever [run for president]?” Trump: “Probably not. … I just don’t think I have the inclination to do it. … I just probably wouldn’t do it, Oprah.” Henry Decker, National Memo, March 18, 2015: “Although the exploratory committee is the most concrete step that Trump has ever taken toward a presidential run, there is still plenty of reason to believe that he won’t go through with it. After all, Trump has publicly flirted with running in every presidential election since 2000 (in addition to several gubernatorial races), and so far he’s never been willing to expose his business interests (or his shady personal life) to the scrutiny that would come with a national campaign.”
Josh Voorhees, Slate, May 28, 2015: “I have no way of knowing whether The Donald will actually run for president this time after decades of hinting at the idea in exchange for some free PR. … But until he actually proves otherwise, I’m not buying what he’s selling—and neither should you. … He will never seriously compete for the GOP nomination even if he is officially running for it.”
Stephen Collinson, CNN, January 27, 2015: “Just when you thought it was safe to go back on the Republican campaign trail, Sarah Palin and Donald Trump are back. All it took to set Twitter abuzz at the first big GOP campaign bash at the weekend was for The Donald and the 2008 vice presidential nominee to clear their throats and muse, yet again, about presidential campaigns. But the idea that they’re both seriously searching their souls and considering a run for the White House doesn’t pass the smell test.” Chris Cillizza, the Washington Post, February 26, 2015: “So, let’s assume—gulp—that Trump is serious this time around. Heck, while we're at it, let's assume he actually runs. IT. DOESN'T. MATTER. I can't emphasize that strongly enough.” Stuart Stevens, Daily Beast, August 20, 2015: “Making political predictions rarely turns out well, but here’s one: Donald Trump will not be a candidate for president in 2016. What? Yes, I know, he’s already announced. In my view, though, he won’t take this all the way to the ballot in Iowa, New Hampshire, or any of the Republican caucus or primary elections. Why? Because he’s Donald Trump and everything we know about him tells us he won’t do it.”
Trump publicly toyed with a presidential run in 1988, 2000 and 2012 but perpetually failed to follow through. So it wasn’t hard to believe that he’d do the same this year—or that a real estate magnate better known for his reality TV show than his political views would have trouble competing against the likes of Jeb Bush, Marco Rubio and Ted Cruz. (So few polls for 2016 included Trump’s name among their potential candidates prior to his announcement that he didn’t even crack Huffington Post Pollster’s aggregate averages, which measure candidates with any support whatsoever, until April—way later than for any other top GOP candidate.) And yet, Trump announced his presidential bid in June, rose to first place in the Republican polls, and has held that place ever since. Trump is done for.
Senator Lindsey Graham, CNN, July 20, 2015: “The American people will not tolerate what he is doing now regarding those who have served. This is a line he has crossed. This is the beginning of the end of Donald Trump.”
Charles Krauthammer, Fox News, August 6, 2015: “The real story is the collapse of Trump in this debate. … The fact is he was out of place. … When he can go on on his own and ramble, he is entertaining, sharp and amusing, but here when he is controlled in a tight setting he was lost for most of the debate.” Jonah Goldberg, Los Angeles Times, July 22, 2015: “The Trump squall is not over, alas. But it’s nonetheless obvious that we will someday soon look back on this as the beginning of the end of Trumpmania. … The reason his demise is all so predictable is that personality eventually shines through. A few politicians are capable of hiding their truly unpleasant personal qualities, but it takes enormous effort, and sooner or later the mask slips.” Nate Cohn, the New York Times, July 8, 2015: “Donald Trump’s surge in the polls has followed the classic pattern of a media-driven surge. Now it will most likely follow the classic pattern of a party-backed decline. … His support will erode as the tone of coverage shifts from publicizing his anti-establishment and anti-immigration views, which have some resonance in the party, to reflecting the chorus of Republican criticism of his most outrageous comments and the more liberal elements of his record.”
Sara Fagen, CNBC, September 17, 2015: “While it’s true Donald Trump’s political demise has been written before and he has continued to defy political pundits with his strength atop the polls, we will look back at last night’s debate and see it as the beginning of the end of Donald Trump’s grip atop the GOP field. Three reasons make this so. … First, the petty insults about people's appearances and intelligence levels are getting old. … Second, as last night’s debate moved into substantive discussions, Donald Trump faded in the background. … Third, there’s no evidence Donald Trump is building the infrastructure necessary to win the GOP nomination.” Even after he surged to first place in July, many clung to the belief that Trump’s inevitable downfall was just one (more) offensive statement or lackluster debate performance around the corner. And yet, scores of Trump-driven controversies later, he is still in first place in the Republican polls and is, according to Gallup, the second most admired man in the world, tied with Pope Francis. He might end up crashing and burning at some point before November, but Trump has officially established himself as more than just a passing fad. Money will be everything.
Bill Schneider, Reuters, December 16, 2014: “Bush will be the last Republican standing. All that money will guarantee it. Just as it did for Romney.” Top Republican donors and strategists, the New York Times, December 8, 2014: “All three [Jeb Bush, Chris Christie and Mitt Romney] are believed to be capable of raising the roughly $80 million in candidate and 'super PAC' money that many Republican strategists and donors now believe will be required to win their party’s nomination.” Despite having no super PAC and spending virtually no money compared with his rivals, Trump is currently at 39 percent in GOP polls, while Bush and Christie are at 3 percent and 5 percent, respectively. Vox even found a negative correlation between a Republican candidate’s polling numbers and his amount of ad spending. Meanwhile, Bernie Sanders came within striking distance of overtaking front-runner Hillary Clinton in the polls, despite being the only Democratic candidate without an affiliated super PAC at all. The Confederate flag will put up a tough fight in South Carolina.
Atlanta Mayor Kasim Reed, Atlanta Journal-Constitution, June 24, 2015: “It’s time to put the Confederate flag to bed in South Carolina, but it’s going to be very difficult, tough and I anticipate some very, very emotional debates—unless things have changed more than I think they have.”
Christine Mai-Duc, Los Angeles Times, June 19, 2015: “A law enacted in 2000, which removed the rebel flag from the dome of the statehouse, prevents any modifications to state monuments without a supermajority. That part of the law makes it extremely unlikely that such a vote could be successful anytime soon.”
After a white supremacist killed several black parishioners at a church in South Carolina, a national campaign pressured the state to remove the Confederate flag from the South Carolina statehouse grounds. Despite some predictions that a required supermajority in the state legislature would not easily agree to take down a flag so entrenched in South Carolina culture, the removal didn’t prove that difficult at all: The state House of Representatives voted 94-20 to dispense with the flag, the state Senate, 36-3.
The American flag will be next.
Rush Limbaugh, The Rush Limbaugh Show, June 23, 2015: “I have a prediction. Look at me. I have a prediction. I just said it's not gonna stop with the Confederate flag because it's not about the Confederate flag. It is about destroying the South as a political force. It's about isolating, targeting, and identifying the South as Dylann Roof. Not Charleston, South Carolina, the South. That's what the leftists' effort on the Confederate flag are. Do not doubt me, folks. … And I'll make another prediction to you. The next flag that will come under assault, and it will not be long, is the American flag. Do not look at me that way. It makes perfect sense. If you take a look at the timeline of progressive events, their speed and rapidity with which the left is conducting this assault on all of these American traditions and institutions, if you don't think the American flag's in their cross hairs down the road, you had better stop and reconsider.” As of press time, there haven’t been any calls to take down the American flag anywhere.
A bunch of things that Karl Rove said.
“There will be a Supreme Court vacancy in 2015.”
“Vladimir Putin will try destabilizing yet another country.”
“Given a choice between conciliation and confrontation, Mr. Obama will liberally threaten to use his veto. … By year’s end, polls will show voters blame him for gridlock.”
“The court will rule the Affordable Care Act does not allow premium subsidies in states without their own insurance exchanges.”
“The House and Senate will pass budget resolutions on time and almost all the appropriations bills before the new fiscal year’s October 1 start. Mr. Obama will veto several appropriations bills for spending too little.” [all quotes from January 7, 2015]
Karl Rove’s first 2015 Wall Street Journal opinion column was a list of his “fearless political predictions for 2015.” There was no Supreme Court vacancy, despite reasonable cases for why the politics were optimal in 2015 for Ruth Bader Ginsburg or Anthony Kennedy to retire. Putin didn’t try destabilizing another country (although some argued that his support of Bashar Assad in Syria perpetuated a lack of stability there). As for who was blamed for gridlock, Obama’s approval rating has remained steady this entire year while Senate Leader Mitch McConnell’s declined. The Court ruled 6-3 in King v. Burwell to preserve the state subsidies instead of striking them down as unconstitutional. And President Barack Obama vetoed one appropriations bill, the National Defense Authorization Act, in October, because he argued it sidestepped budget limitations for the military. In other words, he vetoed it not because it spent too little but because it spent too much!
To be fair, though, Rove also got several predictions correct.
An Iran deal will send the price of oil spiraling downward.
Nick Cunningham (and analysts and Societe General), CNN, March 31, 2015: “The prospect of permanently lowering tensions with Iran—especially in light of the Saudi attack on rebels in Yemen—would also push down prices substantially. If the West and Iran can reach a deal on Tuesday night, oil prices could lose an immediate $5 per barrel, according to analysts at Societe General.”
Oil prices were widely predicted to fall in the event of a nuclear deal with Iran, with many analysts and traders assuming that an agreement would dump huge amounts of Iranian crude onto the world market. While the price of oil briefly dropped after a deal was reached, it quickly rebounded and rose, as those same traders suddenly realized that Iran didn’t have giant crude reserves to sell. Kevin McCarthy will become speaker of the House.
Amber Phillips, the Washington Post, September 25, 2015: “It’s not clear who might give McCarthy a serious challenge at this point, and Boehner, in his resignation press conference, assured that McCarthy would make a good speaker and spoke about him as if he would become speaker.” Lee Drutman, Vox, September 28, 2015: “There’s a simple reason Kevin McCarthy will be the next speaker: money.”
Josh Israel, ThinkProgress, September 25, 2015: “One of these four people will probably be the next speaker of the House: Kevin McCarthy, Steve Scalise, Jim Jordan, Jeb Hensarling.”
When John Boehner made his surprising announcement to step down from the top leadership post in the House of Representatives, it was naturally assumed by most that the position would go to his No. 2. Instead, McCarthy shocked the country by announcing he would not seek the post, mere hours before the Republican Party was going to officially nominate him. And the speakership went to Paul Ryan instead, just a month after Ryan announced he wouldn’t put himself in the running.
Harry Reid will run again as Senate majority leader.
Harry Reid, to Politico, February 10, 2015: “I’m running. You asked a question that has no answer. I’m going to run.”
Sometimes it’s hard to predict even your own political future. 
