VideotranscripttranscriptChris Christie on New Hampshire ResultsGovernor Christie said Tuesday that he would go to New Jersey to “take a deep breath” before deciding what to do next with his campaign, after results from the New Hampshire primary had him trailing.NAGovernor Christie said Tuesday that he would go to New Jersey to “take a deep breath” before deciding what to do next with his campaign, after results from the New Hampshire primary had him trailing.CreditCredit...Cheryl Senter for The New York TimesFeb. 10, 2016Gov. Chris Christie of New Jersey, a once-commanding figure in the Republican Party who struggled to attract support for his presidential campaign but unsettled the race with his strident attacks on Senator Marco Rubio of Florida, ended his run for the White House on Wednesday.The decision came a day after Mr. Christie came in sixth in the New Hampshire primary, an embarrassing result after he had focused the bulk of his campaign’s efforts on the state. He was also facing the prospect of being left out of the group that will take the stage at the Republican debate on Saturday because of his poor showings in the Iowa caucuses last week and in New Hampshire on Tuesday.“While running for president, I tried to reinforce what I have always believed: that speaking your mind matters, that experience matters, that competence matters and that it will always matter in leading our nation,” Mr. Christie wrote on his Facebook page Wednesday afternoon. “That message was heard by and stood for by a lot of people, but just not enough, and that’s O.K.”He also wrote,“And so today, I leave the race without an ounce of regret.”Mr. Christie’s theatrical style and management of the recovery effort after Hurricane Sandy in 2012 had made him a national political celebrity, but when he began his campaign in June, he was unexpectedly an underdog. He was viewed with skepticism by conservative activists and beleaguered by the indictments of close associates in the George Washington Bridge lane-closing scandal.His greatest effect on the presidential race may have come in the debate on Saturday, three days before the New Hampshire primary, in which Mr. Christie savaged Mr. Rubio as a scripted and superficial politician who lacked the qualifications for the presidency.Mr. Rubio appeared stunned by the onslaught, and played into Mr. Christie’s attacks by repeating the same retort four times.That takedown of Mr. Rubio, however, did not translate into votes for Mr. Christie, 53.His weak sixth-place finish in New Hampshire, getting 7 percent of the vote and no delegates, represents a slouching and anticlimactic finale for a politician who once had looked like a powerful favorite for the G.O.P. presidential nomination.Republicans had begun urging Mr. Christie to seek the presidency soon after his first inauguration as governor in 2010. An eager political showman, Mr. Christie theatrically dressed down critics in town-hall forums and then posted videos of the exchanges online that wowed a fast-growing group of national followers. He seemed to get the best of the New Jersey Democrats and the state’s labor unions in one confrontation after another, muscling through a law to overhaul public pensions and wearing down teachers’ unions in a bid to overhaul the tenure system.In 2011, a contingent of political donors from Iowa visited Mr. Christie in New Jersey and urged him to run for president.He declined, instead delivering a keynote address at the 2012 Republican convention in Tampa, Fla. After Hurricane Sandy struck New Jersey that fall, Mr. Christie’s popularity soared and he won a landslide re-election in 2013.Mr. Christie seemed unstoppable. His re-election propelled him into the chairmanship of the Republican Governors Association, where he wooed many of the country’s wealthiest conservative donors. In the winter of 2013, he stood atop polls in the national Republican primary race.But Mr. Christie’s political strength splintered quickly at the start of his second term. The revelation that several of his close associates deliberately snarled traffic approaching the George Washington Bridge, as an act of political retribution, threw his administration into crisis.Additional accusations of payback and vengeance emerged, and Mr. Christie’s approach to politics, which seemed in his first term like a stern but necessary corrective to dysfunction in Trenton, began to look increasingly like bullying.Instead of entering the presidential race as an exemplar of Republican success in a Democratic state, Mr. Christie limped in as an embattled figure who had largely lost the confidence of the wealthiest donors bankrolling presidential campaigns.Still, for a brief period in the fall, a path had seemed to open for Mr. Christie in the 2016 race. He climbed in the polls after the terrorist attacks in Paris and San Bernardino, Calif., delivering a forceful national security message anchored in his experience as a federal prosecutor in New Jersey.VideotranscripttranscriptWhere Campaigns Go to DieThe Iowa caucuses and the New Hampshire primaries are the first tests presidential hopefuls face every four years, and for a lot of candidates, it’s the beginning and the end.NAThe Iowa caucuses and the New Hampshire primaries are the first tests presidential hopefuls face every four years, and for a lot of candidates, it’s the beginning and the end.CreditCredit...From left: Hilary Swift for The New York Times, Cheryl Senter for The New York TimesMr. Christie won endorsements from top New Hampshire Republicans, including the speaker of the State House of Representatives and the majority leader of the State Senate. He also received an endorsement from the editorial board of The New Hampshire Union Leader, an influential conservative newspaper.With his gift for banter, Mr. Christie seemed to revel in the give and take of the town-hall meetings that are a staple of New Hampshire politics.But he never resolved the core vulnerabilities at the heart of his campaign: a record of cutting deals with New Jersey Democrats that conservatives found distasteful, and the perception that a legal cloud hung over his administration in Trenton.When he appeared to be gaining ground, Mr. Christie’s opponents unleashed an avalanche of negative commercials against him, highlighting New Jersey’s poor credit rating and Mr. Christie’s decision to expand Medicaid under the Affordable Care Act, and invoking the bridge scandal.A “super PAC” backing Mr. Rubio spent millions of dollars to run an advertisement showing Mr. Christie warmly greeting President Obama after Hurricane Sandy. The image has long been an infuriating one for conservatives, who thought that Mr. Christie was too friendly with Mr. Obama in the closing days of his re-election campaign against Mitt Romney.But Mr. Christie’s campaign also became a study in political determination, and in the effect a candidate can have by simply refusing to give up.And after the pro-Rubio super PAC helped sap his momentum, Mr. Christie seemed to embrace stopping a candidate he deemedunprepared for the presidency.Five days before Saturday’s commanding debate appearance, Mr. Christie told New Hampshire voters that he had been tested in political combat in a way that Mr. Rubio, whom he derided as a first-term senator with no consequential achievements, had not.“You cannot put someone in the Oval Office who doesn’t want the heat,” Mr. Christie said.“I want the heat. I love the heat. I love it — look at me. You know I mean it.”