President Trump angrily struck back at Democrats in sometimes profane terms, calling them “dishonest” and “corrupt” as they pursue impeachment.Videotranscripttranscript‘We’re Not Fooling Around Here,’ Schiff Warns AdministrationSpeaker Nancy Pelosi and Representative Adam B. Schiff, chairman of the House Intelligence Committee, held a news conference about the progress of their impeachment inquiry of President Trump.“Today and just within the last hour— half hour — Chairman Cummings noticed a subpoena that will go out later in this week or next week, after the notice period has expired, that that committee intends to subpoena documents that the White House has been withholding from Congress. We are obviously coordinating very closely with Chairman Cummings on that. We’re not fooling around here, though. We don’t want this to drag on months and months and months, which appears to be the administration’s strategy. So they just need to know that even as they try to undermine our ability to find the facts around the president’s effort to coerce a foreign leader to create dirt that he can use against a political opponent that they will be strengthening the case on obstruction if they behave that way.” “This president of the United States is stooping to a level that is beneath the dignity of the Constitution of the United States and our founders — since the chairman mentioned our founders. They put guardrails in the Constitution because they knew there might be someone who would overplay his or her power.”Speaker Nancy Pelosi and Representative Adam B. Schiff, chairman of the House Intelligence Committee, held a news conference about the progress of their impeachment inquiry of President Trump.CreditCredit...Erin Schaff/The New York TimesPublished Oct. 2, 2019Updated Oct. 3, 2019WASHINGTON — House Democrats moved on Wednesday to compel the White House to cooperate in their impeachment inquiry, announcing plans to issue a subpoena by Friday if it did not comply with requests for documents related to President Trump’s efforts to press Ukraine to investigate a leading political rival, and any attempt to conceal his actions.Representative Elijah E. Cummings of Maryland, the chairman of the Oversight and Reform Committee, notified his panel of the impending subpoena on Wednesday. He said the White House had thus far ignored voluntary requests he submitted with the House Intelligence and Foreign Affairs Committees.“I do not take this step lightly,” Mr. Cummings wrote. “Over the past several weeks, the committees tried several times to obtain voluntary compliance with our requests for documents, but the White House has refused to engage with — or even respond to — the committees.”VideotranscripttranscriptWho Are the Main Characters in the Whistle-Blower’s Complaint?President Trump’s personal lawyer. The prosecutor general of Ukraine. Joe Biden’s son. These are just some of the names mentioned in the whistle-blower’s complaint. What were their roles? We break it down.Congressman: “Sir, let me repeat my question: Did you ever speak to the president about this complaint?” Congress is investigating allegations that President Trump pushed a foreign government to dig up dirt on his Democratic rivals. “It’s just a Democrat witch hunt. Here we go again.” At the heart of an impeachment inquiry is a nine-page whistle-blower complaint that names over two dozen people. Not counting the president himself, these are the people that appear the most: First, Trump’s personal lawyer, Rudolph Giuliani. According to documents and interviews, Giuliani has been involved in shadowy diplomacy on behalf of the president’s interests. He encouraged Ukrainian officials to investigate the Biden family’s activities in the country, plus other avenues that could benefit Trump like whether the Ukrainians intentionally helped the Democrats during the 2016 election. It was an agenda he also pushed on TV. “So you did ask Ukraine to look into Joe Biden.” “Of course I did!” A person Giuliani worked with, Yuriy Lutsenko, Ukraine’s former prosecutor general. He pushed for investigations that would also benefit Giuliani and Trump. Lutsenko also discussed conspiracy theories about the Bidens in the U.S. media. But he later walked back his allegations, saying there was no evidence of wrongdoing by the Bidens. This is where Hunter Biden comes in, the former vice president’s son. He served on the board of a Ukrainian energy company run by this guy, who’s had some issues with the law. While Biden was in office, he along with others, called for the dismissal of Lutsenko’s predecessor, a prosecutor named Viktor Shokin, whose office was overseeing investigations into the company that Hunter Biden was involved with. Shokin was later voted out by the Ukrainian government. Lutsenko replaced him, but was widely criticized for corruption himself. When a new president took office in May, Volodymyr Zelensky, Zelensky said that he’d replace Lutsenko. Giuliani and Trump? Not happy. They viewed Lutsenko as their ally. During a July 25 call between Trump and the new Ukrainian president, Trump defended him, saying, “I heard you had a prosecutor who is very good and he was shut down and that’s really unfair.” In that phone call, Trump also allegedly asked his counterpart to continue the investigation into Joe Biden, who is his main rival in the 2020 election. Zelensky has publicly denied feeling pressured by Trump. “In other words, no pressure.” And then finally, Attorney General William Barr, who also came up in the July 25 call. In the reconstructed transcript, Trump repeatedly suggested that Zelensky’s administration could work with Barr and Giuliani to investigate the Bidens and other matters of political interest to Trump. Since the whistle-blower complaint was made public, Democrats have criticized Barr for dismissing allegations that Trump had violated campaign finance laws during his call with Zelensky and not passing along the complaint to Congress. House Democrats have now subpoenaed several people mentioned in the complaint, as an impeachment inquiry into the president’s conduct continues.President Trump’s personal lawyer. The prosecutor general of Ukraine. Joe Biden’s son. These are just some of the names mentioned in the whistle-blower’s complaint. What were their roles? We break it down.CreditCredit...Illustration by The New York TimesThe subpoena threat was the latest sign that the House was pushing ahead quickly with an aggressive investigation that has taken shape in just over two weeks, after revelations about attempts by Mr. Trump and his personal lawyer, Rudolph W. Giuliani, to pressure Ukraine to investigate former Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. and other Democrats. The allegations, detailed in a whistle-blower complaint, have escalated into an impeachment inquiry that threatens Mr. Trump’s presidency and is plainly enraging him. On Wednesday, the president lashed out at Democrats online and before television cameras, denouncing leading lawmakers as “dishonest people” who were trying to overturn an election they lost in 2016. He distorted not just the facts of the case, but the investigative steps they had taken. And in a bizarre late-afternoon scene, Democrats found their expectations almost comically dashed by a briefing with the State Department’s internal watchdog that they had expected to contain new revelations that could build their case about Mr. Trump. Steven A. Linick, the department’s inspector general, had made a mysterious, last-minute request to deliver documents related to Ukraine to Capitol Hill, setting off a frenzied round of speculation of yet another bombshell from inside the administration. Instead, House Democrats were left fuming after Mr. Linick handed over a packet of news clippings, timelines and interview notes that appeared to have been shared with the State Department by Mr. Giuliani, most related to the unsubstantiated corruption accusations about Mr. Biden and his son that were at the heart of the president’s pressure campaign.Still, the impeachment inquiry is intensifying. Mr. Cummings’s warning suggested that lawmakers and their staffs were working sequentially to collect the evidence they believe they need to corroborate the anonymous C.I.A. whistle-blower complaint that touched off the inquiry. First, they targeted the State Department, then Mr. Giuliani and now the White House.Speaker Nancy Pelosi and Representative Adam B. Schiff of California, the chairman of the Intelligence Committee, warned the administration that any attempt to stonewall the House’s request or intimidate witnesses would be construed as obstruction worthy of impeachment itself. “We’re not fooling around here,” Mr. Schiff said. “We don’t want this to drag on months and months and months, which would be the administration’s strategy. So they just need to know even as they try to undermine our ability to find the facts around the president’s effort to coerce a foreign leader to create dirt that he can use against a political opponent, that they will be strengthening the case on obstruction.”Mr. Trump, watching on television from the White House, responded on Twitter: “The Do Nothing Democrats should be focused on building up our Country, not wasting everyone’s time and energy on BULLSHIT, which is what they have been doing ever since I got overwhelmingly elected in 2016, 223-306.”Then, in a red-faced harangue in the Oval Office with a visibly uncomfortable president of Finland sitting next to him, Mr. Trump declared Democrats “guilty as hell” of corrupting the 2016 election, Mr. Biden “corrupt” and “less smart now than he ever was,” and the C.I.A. whistle-blower “a spy in my opinion.”He saved his sharpest barbs for Mr. Schiff, who has taken the lead in the investigations. Mr. Trump called him “a lowlife” and “shifty, dishonest guy.” Referring to Secretary of State Mike Pompeo, the president said Mr. Schiff “couldn’t carry his ‘blank’ strap,” using the word “blank” instead of “jock” for the locker-room insult.ImageCredit...Doug Mills/The New York TimesAt a second appearance with the visiting President Sauli Niinisto of Finland not much later, Mr. Trump became increasingly angry while responding to questions about the impeachment investigation.He went after Mr. Schiff anew, seizing on a New York Times report that the chairman had learned the outlines of the whistle-blower’s complaint earlier than previously known. Mr. Trump said, falsely, that Mr. Schiff had “helped write it.”The president was so agitated as he was pelted with questions that he repeatedly ordered reporters to query Mr. Niinisto instead. At the end, Mr. Trump turned his back on the Finnish president and stalked off the stage in the East Room without offering his guest the customary handshake.Mr. Giuliani said in an interview that the Democrats were “coming after his two lawyers,” him and Attorney General William P. Barr, with their push to investigate the Ukraine call. He said that he and Mr. Trump were considering filing a lawsuit against Mr. Schiff.ImageCredit...Erin Schaff/The New York TimesThere was a sense of theatrics on Capitol Hill, too, around Mr. Linick’s appearance.Some news reports before the briefing suggested that Mr. Linick planned to bring evidence that showed Mr. Pompeo or his deputies had been trying to retaliate against State Department officials who cooperated with Congress. On a private call with Democratic lawmakers before the briefing, Mr. Cummings advised his colleagues to “stay tuned” for potentially big news.Nothing of the sort materialized. Instead, Democrats left frustrated, accusing Mr. Linick of all but wasting their time with a few dozen pages of conspiratorial documents about the Bidens and Ukraine.The material came in an aged manila envelope that was addressed in elaborate script to Mr. Pompeo and listed “The White House” as the return address. It contained several folders that appeared to have come from a Trump hotel and copies of interview notes bearing the address of Mr. Giuliani’s New York office.Democrats said afterward that Mr. Linick had told them he interviewed T. Ulrich Brechbuhl, Mr. Pompeo’s counselor, about the material. Mr. Brechbuhl said Mr. Pompeo had told him the information “came over”; Mr. Brechbuhl assumed it was from the White House.Walking out of the briefing with a copy of the files in hand, Representative Jamie Raskin, Democrat of Maryland, called the material an “irrelevant distraction from the matter at hand.”“It is very clear what it is,” he told reporters. “It is a package of propaganda, misinformation and conspiracy theories. The real question is where did it come from and how did it end up in our laps?”Mr. Giuliani confirmed Wednesday that at least some of the material was his. He said he gave Mr. Pompeo Ukraine-related material in March, but indicated that the secretary of state did not do anything with it.Mr. Linick said that he had handed the same material he gave to Congress to the F.B.I. in June, and Mr. Giuliani indicated that he believed material he shared with the State Department itself had also been put before the bureau.Mr. Linick did not take questions publicly.The draft subpoena circulated by Mr. Cummings suggests he is casting a wide net for potential records related to the Ukraine matter, and is all but certain to touch off a battle with a White House that has a long history of refusing to comply with congressional requests.It explicitly asks for records that could indicate whether the White House or other administration officials took steps to conceal or destroy the records to prevent Congress or the public from learning what had happened. Among the documents requested are any recordings, transcripts, notes or other records related to a July phone call in which Mr. Trump pressed President Volodymyr Zelensky of Ukraine to conduct investigations that would bolster the American leader politically, or an earlier April call between the two men. It asks for a full list of White House staff members involved in or aware of the calls, any communications that refer to the July call and details about how the White House maintained records of the call. The Justice Department on Wednesday agreed to preserve records of Mr. Trump’s calls with foreign leaders.The draft subpoena also directs the White House to hand over records of any calls with other foreign leaders referring to the topics Mr. Trump discussed with Mr. Zelensky; of meetings related to Ukraine; and of the decision to temporarily withhold $391 million in security aid from the country this summer at the time Mr. Trump was pressing Mr. Zelensky.Asked if he would cooperate, Mr. Trump said, “I always cooperate.” But he then instantly denounced the investigation as “the greatest hoax” and made no mention of the fact that he and his administration have spent much of the year blocking House requests for documents and testimony that they deemed partisan.On Tuesday, Mr. Pompeo became one of the first Trump administration officials to push back officially on the House investigation, writing in a letter to Democratic chairmen that their demands for confidential interviews with diplomats with knowledge of the case was “an act of intimidation” and would not be immediately met.But instead of bringing it to a halt, Mr. Pompeo’s actions seem only to have fueled the case. The Democrats said any attempt to block witnesses from speaking to Congress would be construed by them as witness intimidation. And at least two of the diplomats Mr. Pompeo objected to speaking had indicated to the House that they would appear for private depositions anyway. Mr. Schiff indicated on Wednesday, though, that three other scheduled depositions may not yet be assured.Maggie Haberman contributed reporting from New York, and Kenneth P. Vogel and Catie Edmondson from Washington.