Credit...Max Whittaker for The New York TimesFeb. 21, 2016Trump Isn’t Going to Stop HimselfDonald J. Trump came into South Carolina with momentum after a big win in New Hampshire — and he seemed to try his best to undercut himself. He attacked George W. Bush, a popular figure in the state, for his handling of terrorism and the Iraq war. He repeatedly picked fights with the well-liked Gov. Nikki R. Haley. He held forth on national television about his friendships with Howard Stern and Michael Jackson.All that may have cost him some support: Exit polls showed late-deciding voters were more likely to back other candidates. But Mr. Trump still finished 10 percentage points ahead of his nearest rivals.Republicans have been frustrated by Mr. Trump’s seeming imperviousness to the usual rules of politics. But after he blundered and blustered his way to victory in South Carolina, it is clearer than ever: Nothing short of a broad onslaught is likely to derail him.Rubio’s Generational Change Seeks BuyerSenator Marco Rubio of Florida has long declined to go after Mr. Trump, and he did not shift into attack mode on Saturday. But he drew an implicit contrast with the man who has defined the Republican race with his heated language about immigration and Islamic terrorism.Standing with Ms. Haley, who is of Indian descent, and Senator Tim Scott of South Carolina, who is black, Mr. Rubio sketched a tableau of the Republican Party as he might represent it. He promised to lead a conservative movement made up of the children of immigrants and single parents.It is unclear whether his vision for the party is one that its activist base, enamored so far of Senator Ted Cruz of Texas and Mr. Rubio, will embrace. Mr. Rubio won over a fairly upscale coalition — college graduates and relatively moderate conservatives — but as the race barrels toward Super Tuesday, he will need to do more than that.ImageCredit...Eric Thayer for The New York TimesKasich and Carson Are SpoilersThe fifth- and sixth-place finishers in South Carolina have no apparent path to winning the Republican nomination, but Gov. John Kasich of Ohio and Ben Carson showed why their presence in the race remained significant.Mr. Kasich won a little less than 8 percent of the vote after campaigning in a moderate tone and stressing his Washington experience. He almost certainly drew support away from Mr. Rubio and Jeb Bush. As long as he persists in the race, he will be a roadblock for Mr. Rubio in middle-of-the-road primary states, where Mr. Trump might be vulnerable.Mr. Carson, a retired neurosurgeon whose campaign organization has crumbled, pulled about 7 percent of the vote. A Christian whose faith defines his political persona, Mr. Carson likely undermined Mr. Cruz’s efforts to corner the evangelical vote. He has vowed to press on, just as Mr. Cruz prepares to compete across a number of Bible Belt states on March 1.The Black Vote? No ContestMany African-Americans were loyal and enthusiastic supporters of President Bill Clinton in the 1990s, and black New Yorkers helped elected Hillary Clinton to the Senate in 2000 and 2006. But black Democrats abandoned her in droves during the 2008 presidential race as they embraced Barack Obama and contributed to her ultimate defeat.On Saturday in Nevada, Mrs. Clinton got her groove back with African-Americans: According to entrance polls by Edison Research, she won 76 percent of black Nevada voters, compared with 22 percent for Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont.No other result from the Nevada caucuses bodes better for Mrs. Clinton as she heads to South Carolina for its primary next Saturday and then competes through the South on Super Tuesday, since many of those states have large numbers of black voters.A Caring, Fair-Minded MessageAfter Mrs. Clinton’s defeat in the New Hampshire primary, she sharpened her political message to focus on breaking “barriers” that keep black and Hispanic Americans from rising in society and earning a high-quality education, good jobs and fair treatment from police officers and the criminal justice system.Mrs. Clinton, her campaign surrogates and her television commercials repeated these themes throughout Nevada, and her campaign aides portrayed Mr. Sanders as preoccupied with attacking the political system and Wall Street rather than helping real people.According to entrance polls, Mrs. Clinton won among women and low-income voters — two groups she lost to Mr. Sanders in New Hampshire. Moreover, she seemed to hit on a message that showcased her caring side, a quality that some voters have wanted to see.ImageCredit...Max Whittaker for The New York TimesA Risky Route Ahead for SandersMr. Sanders has been delivering the same message about America’s “corrupt” economic and political system since April. Most politicians would have expanded and refined their themes over time, but his constancy has been held up as a sign of authenticity. Even when he faced a new challenge in Nevada — winning over black and Hispanic voters — he did not markedly change his stump speech. And he lost.In South Carolina, more than half the Democratic electorate is African-American. Mr. Sanders still expresses confidence that his tirades against Wall Street and the campaign finance system will resonate with those voters. But he is planning to campaign in Massachusetts and Virginia next week.By only campaigning part-time in South Carolina and not honing his message to black voters, Mr. Sanders risks being seen as writing off a core constituency of the Democratic Party and narrowing in his appeal at a time when a leading candidate ordinarily would be trying to grow his base of support.