VideotranscripttranscriptClinton Wins South Carolina PrimaryHillary Clinton addressed supporters Saturday after being projected to win by a large margin.naHillary Clinton addressed supporters Saturday after being projected to win by a large margin.CreditCredit...Doug Mills/The New York TimesFeb. 27, 2016COLUMBIA, S.C. — Drawing overwhelming support from the African-American voters who deserted her here eight years ago, Hillary Clinton won her first resounding victory of the 2016 campaign in South Carolina on Saturday, delivering a blow to Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont as their fight turns to the 11 states where Democrats vote on Tuesday.After supporting Barack Obama in 2008, black voters, who will be the dominant force in the coming Southern primaries, turned out in droves for Mrs. Clinton here. They chose her over Mr. Sanders by more than six to one, while white voters narrowly favored her as well, according to exit polls.The rout was both politically and psychologically meaningful for Mrs. Clinton and her allies, who have been waiting for a moment that validated her candidacy with the level of unqualified intensity that South Carolina delivered. The huge margin of victory — she won nearly 74 percent of the vote — will extend her lead over Mr. Sanders in delegates needed to clinch the Democratic nomination. But the results also helped her extinguish any doubts about her ability to win big with Democrats and about her broad appeal among minority voters, who will be decisive in many delegate-rich primaries in March.Mr. Sanders vowed to fight on, expressing confidence Saturday night that he would notch some victories and win delegates on Tuesday. But Mrs. Clinton and her supporters were elated, describing South Carolina as a turning point in the campaign.“We, tonight, have started Hillary Clinton on her way to the White House,” said Representative James E. Clyburn, the state’s most powerful black Democrat, as he introduced Mrs. Clinton at a victory rally here.Taking the stage at the University of South Carolina to cheers of “Madam President,” Mrs. Clinton promised to continue courting voters aggressively in the coming weeks, but she also began looking past Mr. Sanders to the leading Republican candidate, Donald J. Trump.“Tomorrow, this campaign goes national!” Mrs. Clinton said as she dedicated her victory to parents, teachers and “the entrepreneur who told me more dreams die in the parking lots of banks than anywhere else,” particularly among women and minorities.ImageCredit...Sam Hodgson for The New York TimesWithout mentioning Mr. Trump by name, Mrs. Clinton repeated a biblical anecdote from I Corinthians and said the country needed more “love and kindness.” (Mr. Trump botched a reference to II Corinthians last month.)“Despite what you hear, we don’t need to make America great again,” Mrs. Clinton said to raucous applause as she took aim at Mr. Trump’s slogan. “America has never stopped being great.”Mr. Sanders, speaking at a rally on Saturday night in Minnesota, which he hopes to win on Tuesday, spent less time criticizing Mrs. Clinton than reciting his familiar themes decrying Wall Street greed and calling for a $15 minimum wage. At times he sounded more like a passionate spokesman for a series of liberal causes than a ferocious competitor determined to defeat Mrs. Clinton in the next round of voting.“What this campaign is about — and it’s not easy — is trying to force discussion on issues that Congress chooses not to talk about and the media chooses not to talk about,” Mr. Sanders said, citing seniors and veterans who are struggling to live on minimal Social Security payments. Among Mr. Sanders’s allies and even some of her own, the scope of Mrs. Clinton’s victory here was startling. She did it by assiduously cultivating the support of black voters, not least by showing her devotion to President Obama and by promising to build on his legacy. She capped off months of campaigning here with stops on Friday at a popular soul food restaurant and bakery in Charleston and a rally at a historically black college in Orangeburg, alongside black surrogates including the TV personality Star Jones and Mr. Clyburn.“I don’t think President Obama gets the credit he deserves for digging us out of the ditch Republicans put us in,” Mrs. Clinton said, a line she often used in South Carolina, where Mr. Obama defeated her by 29 points in 2008.This time it was Mrs. Clinton who emerged from the first southern primary with a clearer path to the nomination. With 99 percent of the vote counted, Mrs. Clinton won 73.5 percent, to 26 percent for Mr. Sanders. Turnout was about 370,000, according to Edison Research — modest compared with the 532,000 ballots cast in the Clinton-Obama primary race here in 2008, and well below the record 743,000 votes cast in South Carolina’s Republican primary last Saturday, which Mr. Trump won.Mrs. Clinton was expected to win 39 of South Carolina’s delegates to Mr. Sanders’s 14. If she continues to accumulate delegates by such a sizable margin, as many Democrats expect, it will be hard for Mr. Sanders to catch up. Going into the South Carolina primary, Mrs. Clinton had 52 pledged delegates to 51 for Mr. Sanders. Pledged delegates are awarded proportionally in state primaries and caucuses.Under party rules, most delegates are awarded proportionally to Mrs. Clinton and Mr. Sanders based on their shares of the vote in congressional districts. The most Democratic-leaning districts are accorded the most delegates; in many places these are majority black and Hispanic districts, and Mrs. Clinton is far more popular with those voters than is Mr. Sanders.“Support from African-Americans is going to be the key for Secretary Clinton across the South, and South Carolina is a good indication of that,” said former Gov. Richard Riley, who was the secretary of education under President Bill Clinton and is a supporter of Mrs. Clinton.Mrs. Clinton’s strong support among black voters will serve as the biggest roadblock to Mr. Sanders’s chances for a surge in the weeks ahead. Clinton advisers believe she will trounce Mr. Sanders in Alabama, Arkansas, Georgia, Tennessee, Texas and Virginia, which have contests on Tuesday, and, in doing so, move even further ahead of him in their race to capture the 2,383 delegates needed for the Democratic nomination. About 880 Democratic delegates are at stake on Tuesday, the largest number on any single day during the primary season.Mrs. Clinton also has backing from 453 superdelegates — party officials whose support counts toward the nomination — while Mr. Sanders has support from 20. Superdelegates can switch candidates at any time, and their support does not become official until the Democratic convention in July.Mrs. Clinton edged ahead of Mr. Sanders among white voters, although he prevailed with white men, according to exit polls by Edison Research. Mrs. Clinton lost among white voters in the last two states, New Hampshire and Nevada, but South Carolina allies like former Gov. Jim Hodges had said they were confident that her message about creating economic opportunities would appeal to white voters even though it was often targeted to black voters.But in interviews last week, several white Democrats were sharply critical of Mrs. Clinton and said they did not trust her, chiefly because of her use of a private email account and the American deaths in Benghazi, Libya, when she was secretary of state. While exit polls showed Mrs. Clinton and Mr. Sanders running evenly among voters who valued honesty and trustworthiness more than any other candidate qualities, some Clinton allies are deeply concerned that she could struggle with white men in the general election, and Republicans like Mr. Trump have made clear that they intend to sweep white Americans.Hillary Clinton greeted supporters in Columbia, S.C., after winning the South Carolina primary on Saturday.Credit...Doug Mills/The New York TimesSlide 1 of 8 Hillary Clinton greeted supporters in Columbia, S.C., after winning the South Carolina primary on Saturday.Credit...Doug Mills/The New York TimesMr. Sanders had tried to make inroads among African-American voters, including highlighting a grainy black-and-white photo published in The Chicago Tribune that showed a young Mr. Sanders being arrested in Chicago in 1963 while protesting segregation.In a radio ad that aired here, the director Spike Lee urged the state’s black voters to “Do the right thing!” and elect Mr. Sanders. “Bernie takes no money from corporations. Nada. Which means he is not on the take,” the director said, a jab at Mrs. Clinton’s paid speeches and perceived ties to Wall Street. But in the end, Mr. Sanders’s populist message proved no match for Mrs. Clinton’s strategy of embracing President Obama. Both she and Mr. Clinton heaped praise on the president during their recent stops in the state, in jarring contrast to the South Carolina primary eight years ago. In that race, Mr. Clinton infuriated African-Americans here by lashing out at the Obama campaign and comparing Mr. Obama’s success to the victories here by the Rev. Jesse L. Jackson in the 1984 and 1988 primaries. Many Democrats, especially black voters, viewed those comparisons as diminishing to Mr. Obama.As if already looking past South Carolina, which had for months heavily favored Mrs. Clinton, Mr. Sanders addressed big crowds at two rallies in Texas on Saturday before finishing in Minnesota. His aides believe that Mrs. Clinton remains vulnerable in many states and that Mr. Sanders is well positioned to win Oklahoma, Massachusetts, Minnesota, Colorado and his home state of Vermont on Tuesday.On Sunday, Mrs. Clinton planned to campaign in Memphis, Nashville and Pine Bluff, Ark., a poverty-stricken city in Mr. Clinton’s home state.Even before the results of the South Carolina primary had been tallied, Mrs. Clinton held a rally on Saturday in Alabama. “Fired up! Ready to go!” the crowd chanted, using a popular line from Mr. Obama’s 2008 campaign.Before the rally, she stopped at the Yo’ Mama’s chicken and waffles restaurant and the Urban Standard coffee shop in Birmingham, where she declared, “Down the hatch!” as she downed a “straight up” shot of espresso.“I like your style,” the barista said.