    REUTERS THE VILLAGES, Fla. — Meet Paul Ryan’s mom.  Betty Ryan Douglas, 78, is the newest face of the Medicare wars that have abruptly taken center stage in the 2012 contest, joining her son here Saturday in the town square of a sprawling retirement community as Ryan assured seniors that he and Mitt Romney won’t take away their Medicare and Social Security.  “Like a lot of Americans, when I think about Medicare, it’s not just a program,” Ryan told the mostly elderly crowd at The Villages, a central Florida retirement community that is billed as the world’s largest. “It’s what my mom relies on. It’s what my grandma had.”  ( PHOTOS: Paul Ryan and his mom)  Douglas — who spends her winters in nearby Lauderdale-By-The-Sea — plays tennis and works out every day, Ryan said, and she appeared spry as the two walked hand in hand toward the stage.  The congressman pointed to his mother as an example of how the debate over Medicare is both political and personal in a state with the highest percentage of elderly voters in the country. To voters here today, Betty is a “Medicare senior in Florida,” one of the nation’s many “snowbirds” who flees colder climes during the winter months for the warmth of places like Florida.  “Medicare was there for our family, for my grandma, when we needed it then, and Medicare is there for my mom while she needs that now, and we need to keep that guaranteed,” the House Budget Committee chairman said, describing the experience of being one of the primary caregivers for his grandmother, who suffered from advanced Alzheimer’s.  ( Also on POLITICO: Ryan opens up about life on the trail)  As the vice presidential nominee debuted in Florida, Ryan and his mom — who wore a yellow jacket and white pants — were greeted by several thousand enthusiastic retirees, some who were camped out here for hours to see the mother-son team. Law enforcement officials estimated 3,000 people crowded into the town square, and more spilled onto streets lined with golf carts, the transportation method of choice for most of the community’s residents.  The 42-year-old lawmaker revved up the crowd and was met with applause, but the cheers for his message on energy and small businesses were more enthusiastic than for his remarks on health care.  The Villages is a familiar stop for presidential candidates and Republicans in particular. The developer of the community and his family have personally donated more than $1.5 million to Republican candidates and super PACs this election cycle.  Florida is a must-win state for the GOP presidential ticket, and the race has grown more heated here since Ryan was named as the vice presidential contender last weekend. Debate over his controversial budget plan — which would turn Medicare into a voucher program for seniors after the year 2023 — has since become pivotal, and Republicans are working overtime to defend their proposals.  Romney and Ryan have attacked President Barack Obama for cuts to the Medicare trust fund to pay for his health care reform, and Ryan hewed to that line today.  Ryan accused the president of “raiding” Medicare to pay for the Affordable Care Act and going back on a promise that so many seniors are counting on. The Obama campaign argues that Ryan and Romney aren’t telling the whole story when it comes to their Medicare reform plans, omitting crucial details that would be unpopular with seniors.  “What’s worse is the president’s campaign calls this an achievement,” Ryan said. “Do you think raiding Medicare to pay for Obamacare is an achievement? Do you think that empowering a board of bureaucrats to cut Medicare is anachievement? Neither do I.”  He and Romney, Ryan said, will make sure that Medicare is not “used as a piggybank for Obamacare,” and it should remain “the promise that it made to our current seniors, period, end of story.” “Here is what Mitt Romney and I will do: We’d end the raid of Medicare; we will restore the promise of this program; and we will make sure that this board of bureaucrats will not mess with my mom’s health care or your mom’s health care,” Ryan said.  Before the crowd of seniors, Ryan also used his mother’s life story to launch a counterpunch on Obama’s “you didn’t build that” line, prompting the most enthusiastic response from the audience here.  “When my dad died, my mom went back to school. She went back to college, got a new skill or a new trade, and she started a small business. … We were taking care of my grandma at the time. She was going to school, and then she started this small business,” Ryan said. “And mom? Mom? I am proud of you for going out and getting another degree. I am proud of you for the small business that you created, and mom, you did build that. That is what America is all about. I am so proud of her for that. I am so proud of her for doing that right in the middle of her life.”  During his speech — which lasted for nearly 20 minutes — Ryan also gave credit to a federal advisory commission organized by former President Bill Clinton.  “Our solution to preserve, protect and save Medicare does not affect your benefits. Let me repeat that. Our plan does not affect the benefits for people who are in or near retirement. It’s a promise that was made, and it’s a promise that must be kept,” Ryan said.  “But in order to make sure we can guarantee that promise — for my mom’s generation, for those baby boomers who are retiring every day — we must reform it for my generation. To save it for this generation, you have to reform it for my generation so it doesn’t go bankrupt when we retire.”  Ryan says the Romney-Ryan plan “originated in the Clinton commission plan to save Medicare in the 1990s.”  Responding to Ryan’s pitch here, Obama campaign advisers argued that the Romney campaign isn’t telling Florida’s seniors the full truth about their plan.  “Mitt Romney and Paul Ryan know a detailed debate about their Medicare voucher plan is politically ‘suicidal,’ so they’re not telling the truth about its impact on current seniors,” Obama campaign spokesman Danny Kanner wrote in an email.  While a plane flew overhead with a banner that read “Paul Ryan — keep your hands off our Medicare” and a small group of protesters carried signs supporting Obama’s reelection bid that read “Hands off my Medicare,” most people here were excited for the opportunity to get close to Ryan as he wrapped his first week on the GOP ticket.  “We saw Mitt Romney when he was here around Christmastime. We’ve seen the next president, so we wanted to see the next vice president,” Irvin Craft, 72, said. “He’s very astute; he’s very conservative. He’s got a plan — we think it’s the right kind of plan. And I think he’ll lead us in the right direction.  Craft, originally from Roanoke, Va., and his wife, BJ, scored a prized spot near the front of the crowd by showing up before 8 a.m. The Villages, they said, is like “Disneyland for old people,” where they can drive their golf carts everywhere. Ryan and Romney’s plan to reform Medicare didn’t worry them. But Obama’s health care law does.  “It looks like he’ll maybe put some money back in Medicare that Obama took out and get rid of Obamacare. And we’ll have some direction when a new program comes out,” Irvin Craft said.  Mostly, they said, they wanted to hear Ryan sing “America, The Beautiful” as Romney famously did at a campaign rally here — it was later used in an Obama TV ad — .  “We got to hear Mitt sing, and he can carry a tune also,” BJ Craft said. “I was surprised. We love that.”  But Ryan didn’t, instead leaving the vocals to country music star Lee Greenwood, who belted out “God Bless the U.S.A.” before Ryan took the stage. 
