Credit...Richard Perry/The New York TimesMarch 9, 2016Join us for live updates of the Republican debate._______The story is getting familiar: Donald J. Trump won the biggest contests of the night, as Senator Ted Cruz of Texas captured the most conservative state up for grabs. Hillary Clinton kept a clear upper hand in the Democratic race, but Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont proved he would not be driven away anytime soon.Tuesday’s elections could have brought new clarity to the presidential primaries. Instead, they only seemed to confirm that both parties would probably settle their nominations by battling for delegates well into the spring.For Republicans, Trump is in controlNothing silences criticism like victory, and Mr. Trump racked up several on Tuesday. His successes in Hawaii, Michigan and Mississippi dealt a painful psychological blow to Republicans who had convinced themselves that his campaign was losing steam.But Mr. Trump won, and he won big, with no obvious cracks in his support from disaffected, lower-income whites.Still, Mr. Trump has a lot to prove in the race: He is only now being subjected to withering, well-funded attack ads, and Mr. Cruz notched another small-state win in Idaho, again proving the tenacity of his support with hard-core conservatives.ImageCredit...Todd Heisler/The New York TimesThe Democratic race is stalledIf Mrs. Clinton had crushed Mr. Sanders in Michigan, their contest might have been over in all but name. But his narrow win there ensures the fight will go on.Yet in the bigger picture, the basic battle lines of the Democratic race have barely moved in weeks. In Michigan, Mr. Sanders dominated with young voters, independents and white liberals — his core constituencies all along.Mrs. Clinton handily won partisan Democrats, low-income voters and black voters in Michigan, and routed Mr. Sanders in Mississippi with overpowering black support.The outcome in Michigan showed how difficult it could be for Mrs. Clinton to knock Mr. Sanders cleanly out of the race, but Mr. Sanders has still not attracted the kind of coalition that would make him a genuine threat to win the nomination.Rubio has been sidelinedIt was a miserable, even disastrous night for Senator Marco Rubio of Florida. He finished fourth in Michigan and Mississippi, languishing in single digits and collecting no delegates from those states. He must fight for survival in his home state next week, where even an upset win might not rescue his campaign.Mr. Rubio’s core problem is that he has claimed no distinctive space in the race. Exit polls showed that Mr. Cruz and Gov. John R. Kasich of Ohio have seized big pieces of the party’s right and left wings. Mr. Rubio has claimed no particular constituency at all.ImageCredit...Hilary Swift for The New York TimesCruz and Kasich are in parallel universesMr. Kasich wins college towns. Mr. Cruz wins ultraconservative outer suburbs. Mr. Kasich wins liberal Republicans. Mr. Cruz overperforms with evangelicals.For most of the 2016 campaign, the Republicans vying to overtake Mr. Trump have squabbled bitterly. But Mr. Kasich and Mr. Cruz have so far avoided direct conflict, and Tuesday’s results show why: They are just not competing for the same voters. In theory, they could keep hassling Mr. Trump from opposite sides of the Republican Party for weeks or months to come.The Midwest mattersThe results in Michigan gave Mr. Sanders a big lifeline — and they may be somewhat encouraging to Mr. Trump’s principal challengers, too. Despite Mr. Trump’s double-digit win, he collected less than two-fifths of the vote, with about half of voters opting for either Mr. Cruz or Mr. Kasich.For the underdogs in both parties, those results point the way toward a hard fight for delegates in the Midwest, where Mr. Trump’s appeal is limited among Republicans and Mr. Sanders’s hard-left message plainly appeals to liberal whites.The political calendar is teed up for just such a battle in the Rust Belt. For all the focus on Florida’s primary on March 15, three Midwestern states vote on the same day: Illinois, Missouri and Ohio. Wisconsin follows soon after, on April 5.Open primaries matterIf Tuesday’s Democratic primaries had been restricted to Democrats, Mrs. Clinton would have won landslides in Michigan and Mississippi. Had only Republicans voted, Mr. Trump would have won narrower victories over Mr. Cruz, and Mr. Kasich would have been relegated to a distant third place.While Mrs. Clinton won Democrats by 16 points, Mr. Sanders won independents, who made up less than a third of the electorate, by 42 points, according to exit polls.There is nothing illicit about winning primaries with support from independents. But the collection of states that allow crossover voting have become a frustrating obstacle to Mrs. Clinton as she works to lock down the Democratic nomination, and a potentially crippling problem for Mr. Cruz as he tries to build a winning coalition against Mr. Trump.ImageCredit...Alan Diaz/Associated Press