VideotranscripttranscriptCruz Wins Big in WisconsinSenator Ted Cruz followed up a landslide win in Utah with a convincing victory in the Wisconsin primary.naSenator Ted Cruz followed up a landslide win in Utah with a convincing victory in the Wisconsin primary.CreditCredit...Eric Thayer for The New York TimesApril 5, 2016Senator Ted Cruz soundly defeated Donald J. Trump in the Wisconsin primary on Tuesday, breathing new life into efforts to halt Mr. Trump’s divisive presidential candidacy and dealing a blow to his chances of clinching the Republican nomination before the party’s summer convention.With more than 80 percent of precincts reporting, Mr. Cruz had received 48 percent of the vote to 34 percent for Mr. Trump. Gov. John Kasich of Ohio was a distant third with 14 percent.Mr. Trump’s loss was his most significant setback since Mr. Cruz narrowly defeated him in Iowa, the campaign’s first nominating contest. And after largely dominating the Republican field from the moment he announced his candidacy last June, Mr. Trump now faces a fresh challenge: bouncing back in the face of searing attack ads by Republicans bent on stopping him, questions about his demeanor and campaign organization, and a single ascendant challenger in Mr. Cruz.In winning Wisconsin so convincingly, Mr. Cruz, of Texas, showed he was capable of appealing to more than just the hard-line and religious conservative Republicans who have been the foundation of his campaign. “Tonight is a turning point,” he told cheering supporters in Milwaukee. “It is a rallying cry. It is a call from the hard-working men and women of Wisconsin to the people of America: We have a choice, a real choice.”But Mr. Cruz faces daunting tasks. One is consolidating the anti-Trump vote. Another is capturing more moderate Republicans in a series of primaries in Northeastern states that are likely to be favorable territory for Mr. Trump, beginning with New York on April 19.Standing in Mr. Cruz’s way is Mr. Kasich, whose poor showing Tuesday came despite spending considerable time in Wisconsin. While Mr. Trump handily won among Wisconsin moderates, exit polls showed, Mr. Cruz and Mr. Kasich received roughly equal support in that group. Mr. Cruz not only took nearly two-thirds of “very conservative” voters, he also won among voters who called themselves only “somewhat conservative.” Notably, Mr. Cruz also won among those who did not call themselves born-again Christians — a group with which he has struggled in earlier contests.Voters who made their decisions late once again broke sharply against Mr. Trump, who sustained a series of self-inflicted wounds in the last week: A third of voters settled on a candidate over that period, and of those, 46 percent said they backed Mr. Cruz. Only 29 percent embraced Mr. Trump.Most striking was how many Wisconsin primary voters still harbored deep discomfort with Mr. Trump despite his wide lead in the race for delegates. In exit polls, 58 percent said they would be “concerned” or “scared” if he were elected, higher than the other two Republican hopefuls. And 37 percent of those who voted in the Republican primary said they would support Hillary Clinton, a third-party candidate or no one at all if Mr. Trump were the nominee.Wisconsin was not a total loss for Mr. Trump, however: He picked up three of the state’s 42 delegates, and had a chance to win a handful more depending on the results in a congressional district stretching across much of the western end of the state.On Tuesday night, as Mr. Cruz quoted John F. Kennedy and Winston Churchill and offered himself as a unifier of a party at war with itself, his two rivals refrained from appearing in public. The silence was especially noticeable from Mr. Trump, who has often used primary nights to boast of his strength, joust with reporters or promote his business interests.Long after the outcome was clear, a Trump spokeswoman, Hope Hicks, issued a statement assailing “Lyin’ Ted” and calling Mr. Cruz “worse than a puppet — he is a Trojan horse, being used by the party bosses attempting to steal the nomination from Mr. Trump.”Mr. Cruz’s campaign is convinced that because of Mr. Trump’s recent difficulties, polling in New York that showed him enjoying a comfortable lead is now outdated. Mr. Trump will test his home-state appeal with a rally Wednesday in Bethpage, on Long Island, for which organizers said 18,000 people have requested tickets.“I am so happy that Wisconsin is over,” said Carl Paladino, a Trump campaign co-chairman in New York who was the Republican candidate for governor in 2010. “They already have rigor mortis setting in on Donald Trump. Now you’re going to see what’s going to happen starting tomorrow.”Mr. Cruz, who boasted in his victory speech that he had raised more than $2 million on Tuesday alone, plans a campaign to pick off delegates across the state, beginning with visits to the Bronx on Wednesday and the Albany area on Thursday.But Mr. Kasich could prove a complication. New York State awards three delegates for each congressional district. A candidate who wins a majority in a district gets all three; otherwise, the winner gets two and the second-place finisher gets one. Aides to Mr. Cruz fear that Mr. Kasich’s presence could hold Mr. Cruz to less than 50 percent of the vote in some districts, potentially costing him delegates and handing them to Mr. Trump.Tuesday’s stakes were the greatest for the Republicans since March 15, when five large states cast ballots and Mr. Trump’s victory in Florida drove Senator Marco Rubio out of the race.Many Republicans hoping to defeat Mr. Trump saw Wisconsin as perhaps their last chance to thwart his march to the nomination. With no other Republican contests in the two weeks before or after, Wisconsin made for an isolated showdown.For Mr. Trump, it was an opportunity to add to his wide delegate lead and score an important psychological victory just as the race turns to his native Northeast. A win in Wisconsin, the sort of Democratic-leaning Midwestern state he has vowed to carry in November, would restore his momentum and undercut those most resistant to his candidacy.For the party’s anti-Trump forces, a victory for Mr. Cruz promised to revitalize hopes that Mr. Trump could be denied a delegate majority, potentially resulting in a contested convention in July. Led by the “super PAC” Our Principles, opponents of Mr. Trump unleashed a sustained assault against him in Wisconsin.But the greatest damage to Mr. Trump in the 10 days leading up to the primary was his own doing.In a stretch that at times seemed to verge on political masochism, Mr. Trump threatened and mocked Mr. Cruz’s wife, and led an elaborate and far-fetched defense of his campaign manager after the aide was charged with battery against a female reporter.Mr. Trump also offered multiple contradictory views on the lightning-rod issue of abortion, including a suggestion that women be punished for ending their pregnancies. And he called in to conservative Wisconsin radio talk shows, apparently unaware of their hosts’ hostility to him, to criticize Gov. Scott Walker and Speaker Paul D. Ryan of the United States House, two highly popular Wisconsin Republicans.Mr. Cruz strained on Monday to cast his likely win as an upset. “Just a couple weeks ago, all of the media commentators were saying Wisconsin was a state I could not compete in,” he insisted. “Supposedly, it was Donald Trump’s sweet spot.”Yet as Mr. Cruz swept through event centers, ballrooms and a “cheese castle” to sample the local staple — he said it was his favorite food — he appeared to identify a sort of blueprint for future success against Mr. Trump.Mr. Cruz’s superior on-the-ground organization, which has also buoyed him in the shadow primary for convention delegates, came out in force. And in public appearances, after several days of media coverage dominated by Mr. Trump’s attacks against Mr. Cruz’s wife and shifting statements on abortion, Mr. Cruz made a play for the high road. “It’s gotten to the point where I could not care less about Donald Trump,” he said to cheers on Saturday in Ashwaubenon, outside Green Bay.But Mr. Cruz also moved to seize an opening, speaking about his double-digit lead among women in Wisconsin, which aides hope will carry over to other states.The most conspicuous effort came last week, with the introduction of a Women for Cruz coalition at an event in Madison headlined by Mrs. Cruz; Mr. Cruz’s mother, Eleanor Darragh, who is seldom seen on the campaign trail; and Carly Fiorina, Mr. Cruz’s highest-profile female surrogate, who has delighted in her attack role against Mr. Trump.“I’ve been blessed my whole life,” Mr. Cruz said, “to be surrounded by strong women.”When Mr. Cruz mentioned his wife, Heidi, at one point on Tuesday night, the crowd began to chant her name on cue, interrupting his speech. Mr. Cruz praised her for teaching their young daughters “that strong women can accomplish anything in America.”