April 19, 2016Credit...Spencer Platt/Getty ImagesIT’S not a great election year for the voters of Wall Street. The problem goes beyond the popularity of Senator Bernie Sanders, who can’t seem to go five minutes without labeling big banks Enemy No. 1.“The consensus, absolutely, is that the choices couldn’t be worse,” said William D. Cohan, a business writer and former Wall Street banker. “This has become the nightmare scenario for people on Wall Street.”In conversations with people who work on Wall Street — almost all of whom requested anonymity to speak freely about their industry — a theme emerged: There is a lot of confusion about what’s happening, and no clear favored candidate.One senior executive at a Wall Street bank said he would most likely vote for Hillary Clinton in the primary, but was still undecided. The executive said that in election-year conversations with colleagues, around the water cooler or over cocktails, there usually arises a clear favorite. In 2012, that favorite was Mitt Romney by a mile. This year: “It’s as mixed and confused as I’ve ever seen it.”The confusion makes sense if you consider the cast of characters. Mr. Sanders is calling to break up the big banks — a move that even left-of-center economists have disagreed on. Mrs. Clinton has made strenuous efforts, with varied results, to allay the perception that she’s too cozy with bankers.On the Republican side, Gov. John Kasich of Ohio may have once worked for Lehman Brothers, and may be closest to the interests of those in the finance world, but the professional bettors on Wall Street recognize that he’s a long shot. Donald J. Trump has alienated much of the financial sector — if not with his multiple bankruptcies, then with his divisive rhetoric and lack of detailed policies.Then there’s Senator Ted Cruz, whose wife was an executive at Goldman Sachs, but whose social conservatism and scorched-earth partisanship are a turnoff for moderate New York Republicans.All of the Wall Street employees I interviewed took issue with Mr. Sanders’s view of their industry, but they also confirmed his view that, yes, people who work in the financial sector tend to like Mrs. Clinton.“Bernie has forced Hillary to run a certain way that she probably would prefer not to, and it’s a race to the bottom. It’s horrible,” said another senior Wall Street executive, a political independent who plans to vote for Mrs. Clinton in the fall. “The thing you continually hear is, there’s no way Trump can be president, and there’s no way Sanders can be president.”Since the 2008 economic recession, the financial sector has attracted plenty of righteous scorn. Mr. Sanders has harnessed that disgust and resentment to great effect. The Occupy Wall Street movement has played a large role in making Mr. Sanders’s message more broadly acceptable. Marina Sitrin, one of the early organizers of the movement, said it had “normalized looking at the roots of the problem rather seeing them as individual.”Still, Democrats who work in finance have been frustrated by Mr. Sanders’s broad anti-Wall Street rhetoric. The people I spoke to noted that the “Wall Street” Mr. Sanders rails against isn’t just made up of plutocratic hedge-fund types and predatory lenders, but money managers trying to help middle-class workers retire comfortably, and bankers trying to help small-business owners get a loan.Todd H. Baker, a lawyer and lifelong Democrat who has worked as an executive at three large banks, wrote recently in The New York Daily News that Mr. Sanders’s campaign should not “smear” people like him as part of the problem, or call campaign contributions from the financial sector a “sign of corruption.”This election cycle seems to be proving that Wall Street has lost some of its political influence. In the first half of 2015, securities and investment workers gave $30 million to try and elect Jeb Bush. But piles of Wall Street money couldn’t save Mr. Bush, who proved to be a startlingly inept candidate ill suited for the Trump era.Securities and investment employees have donated roughly $21 million to Mrs. Clinton’s campaign and the outside groups that support her, according to the Center for Responsive Politics. By comparison, that sector has given $12 million to Mr. Cruz and $3 million to Mr. Kasich; it doesn’t even crack the top 20 list of industries that have donated to Mr. Sanders.During her time representing New York in the United States Senate, Mrs. Clinton had a mixed record on financial regulation. She proposed several bills to crack down on Wall Street, but they died without garnering support from her colleagues. In October 2008, as the economy was mid-nosedive, Mrs. Clinton was one of 39 Democratic senators who voted for the $700 billion bailout of the financial system, a fact that Mr. Sanders won’t let her live down.Whatever happens today in New York, it does seem as though voters’ trust in large institutions on Wall Street — along with the news media, Congress and political parties writ large — has eroded to the point of invisibility.In a recent fund-raising email, Mr. Sanders’s campaign achieved a trifecta, criticizing all three industries in the same sentence.“Right now, in lower Manhattan, the Wall Street bankers, corporate media types, and Democratic party establishment figures are hoping you’ll sit this fight out,” the email read.Still, at the very least, Wall Street executives and Mr. Sanders’s supporters can agree on one thing: their utter disgust with the idea of a Trump presidency.