Credit...Damon Winter/The New York TimesMarch 20, 2016On paper, Donald J. Trump is the last candidate one would expect to raise eyebrows within the Jewish community.He is from the city with the country’s largest Jewish population, and he made his fortune working among the Jewish machers in New York’s real estate industry. His Palm Beach club, Mar-a-Lago, was effectively marketed as a Jewish alternative to the town’s private clubs that had historically excluded Jews. His daughter Ivanka married an Orthodox Jew and converted. He endorsed Benjamin Netanyahu for prime minister of Israel. (“Terrific guy, terrific leader.”)And yet when he takes the stage on Monday at the annual policy conference of the American Israel Public Affairs Committee, the influential lobbying group known as Aipac, he will be facing a wary crowd.Mr. Trump’s ostentatious disregard for the sensitivities of various religious and ethnic groups has hit a nerve among Jewish organizations, inspiring a barrage of denunciations from across the ideological spectrum. They cringed at his trafficking in Jewish stereotypes and recoiled when he hesitated before denouncing David Duke, the Ku Klux Klan figure.Many Jews have said Mr. Trump’s comments about Muslims reminded them of when they had been singled out, and a group of rabbis said last week that it would walk out of his Aipac speech in protest. “What we’ve learned from our history is that we can’t stand idly by when a leader says those things,” said Rabbi Jesse M. Olitzky of South Orange, N.J., one of those who plan to eject themselves.Mr. Trump also stumbled when he waded into one of America’s most charged foreign policy issues, promising to remain a “neutral” broker between Israelis and Palestinians.For the many Jews who side with Israel in its dealings with Palestinians — a number of whom are Aipac members — “that was like fingernails across the chalkboard,” said Ari Fleischer, the former spokesman for President George W. Bush. Mr. Trump later modified his position to be more pro-Israel, but his wavering left many unconvinced.So while Mr. Trump has proved to be a master salesman at rallies and debates, the crowd he is addressing on Monday, a leery group looking for meaningful specifics, may be his toughest sell yet.ImageCredit...Eric Thayer for The New York Times“He’s said a variety of things over the years, much of it favorable to Israel, much of it ambiguous more recently,” said Josh Block, a former Aipac spokesman who now runs a pro-Israel nonprofit in Washington. “The speech is an important opportunity for this audience to hear what he really thinks on these issues that matter a great deal.”As has often been the case with Mr. Trump’s campaign, it is unclear how much the revulsion over his comments and behavior matters in the voting booth. Little data exist on Jewish attitudes toward Mr. Trump, and because most American Jews are Democrats, they will not have a chance to weigh in on him unless he becomes the Republican nominee.Bruce Balsam, 59, who was walking into Sabbath services on Friday at Temple Emanu-El, the stately synagogue a few blocks north of Trump Tower on Fifth Avenue, said Mr. Trump’s shifting position on the Israeli-Palestinian conflict “really disturbs me.” But, he added, “I’d want to hear more about that.”He said he considered Mr. Trump’s take on national security and Muslim immigration to be more “anti-Islamic” than “presidential,” but agreed that caution needed to be taken. “People who are coming from certain parts of the world, where anti-American sentiments are high, we should be highly cautious of,” Mr. Balsam said.Mr. Balsam pointed to Temple Emanu-El, one of the largest Jewish institutions in the world, as an example. “You have armed guards outside,” he said, gesturing toward the New York Police Department’s counterterrorism officers, who are frequently stationed at the synagogue. “You have armed guards inside.”Hope Hicks, a spokeswoman for the Trump campaign, said Mr. Trump “looks forward to speaking to a group whom he has tremendous respect for.”“Mr. Trump has said, as president, there will be no one stronger on Israeli-American relations than him, and his consistent support and advocacy for Israel over many years is proof of this,” she said. “Additionally, Mr. Trump is the only candidate to speak with clarity about the deadly threat of radical Islam. ISIS and other Islamic terror groups cannot be defeated if we are politically correct.”That Mr. Trump has found himself in the position of having to defend his pro-Israel credentials is something of a surprise, given his history. He has been honored by a variety of Jewish groups over the years, and, as he likes to point out, once served as grand marshal of the Salute to Israel Parade in Manhattan. He has also flirted with licensing a Trump Tower in Israel.ImageCredit...Stephen Crowley/The New York TimesMr. Trump has joked in the past that people assume he is Jewish because he owns so many buildings in New York. He has even claimed to be the victim of anti-Semitism.In the 1990s, he accused the Palm Beach, Fla., government of blocking his efforts to open Mar-a-Lago because the club was going to be open to Jews. He went so far as to send the Town Council copies of the 1947 film “Gentleman’s Agreement,” about a journalist who poses as a Jew in order to expose anti-Semitism.When the Anti-Defamation League objected to Mr. Trump’s characterization of his treatment, he summoned its national director, Abraham Foxman, to breakfast at the Plaza Hotel to complain. Mr. Trump did not apologize, though he did agree to stop claiming anti-Semitism and instead use the more general term of discrimination, Mr. Foxman recalled.Now, Mr. Trump is the one who has come under attack, after rolling out a familiar anti-Semitic trope in a speech to the Republican Jewish Coalition late last year.“I’m a negotiator, like you folks,” he told the crowd. He then criticized President Obama’s nuclear deal with Iran, a deal opposed by many American Jews and Mr. Netanyahu. “Is there anybody that doesn’t renegotiate deals in this room?” Mr. Trump asked. “Perhaps more than any other room I’ve ever spoken in.”Mr. Trump was widely criticized for the remark, but inside the room he was met mostly with laughs. “I thought it was kind of lightly phrased,” said Kenneth Bialkin, who was in the audience. “He knew he was in a Jewish environment.”The jeers came from the group when Mr. Trump declined to commit to Jerusalem as the undivided capital of Israel. That, coupled with comments he has made about remaining neutral, worried some pro-Israel Jews, who were not necessarily mollified by Mr. Trump’s subsequent claims that he is “Israel’s biggest friend.”“Israel benefits from a strong, consistent, reliable America,” said William Kristol, the editor of The Weekly Standard, who has been one of Mr. Trump’s most vocal conservative critics. “I don’t think that would be Trump’s America.”Virtually no one thinks Mr. Trump is anti-Semitic, and the invitation from Aipac is a sign that the group is open to hearing what he has to say. Three of the other four major presidential candidates are also addressing the conference, being held in Washington; only Senator Bernie Sanders declined to attend, saying he was going to spend the day campaigning in the West.Notably, Sheldon Adelson, the casino magnate and a major donor to Republican and Israeli causes, said recently that he would back Mr. Trump if he were the nominee, and a newspaper that he owns, Israel Hayom, has written favorably about Mr. Trump.But there is still concern about Mr. Trump’s behavior, which if not anti-Semitic is at least seen by many Jews as overly accommodating of bigotry. “The way he dillydallied with David Duke basically sent a message that was perceived by many in the Jewish community as he’s looking for any votes he can get from the hard right,” said Alan M. Dershowitz, the defense lawyer.To Mr. Dershowitz, the problem is not simply Mr. Trump; it is the white supremacists who have rallied around his candidacy. “It’s quite frightening to see who supports him,” he said.Ms. Hicks, the campaign spokeswoman, said Mr. Trump had “disavowed David Duke and continues to strongly condemn any groups that share those hateful views.”And for all of his critics in the Jewish world, Mr. Trump also has his supporters, including Sid Dinerstein, the former chairman of the Palm Beach County Republican Party in Florida.“Donald Trump’s relationship with Israel and the Jews is beyond fabulous,” Mr. Dinerstein said, noting that his wife displayed a Trump bumper sticker on the dashboard of her Mercedes-Benz.Mr. Dinerstein said he trusted Mr. Trump to negotiate good deals for Israel — “he only negotiates from strength, he doesn’t know anything else” — and to make sure that America “doesn’t get pushed around.”He and his wife are hardly the lone Trump supporters in their predominantly Jewish community, he said, though not everyone is outspoken about it.“Sometimes people come over to me and quietly say, ‘Sid, I never thought I would say this, but I’m voting for Trump,’” Mr. Dinerstein said. “And I say, ‘Everybody says that.’ ”