So, that happened. With his primary opponents dispatched and establishment Republicans being wooed in earnest, Donald Trump believes himself to be on the glide path to unifying the Republican Party. But not so fast: the rebel movement of distressed and despairing Republicans who have emerged under the hashtag-cum-banner #NeverTrump has not given up the fight to keep the ranting rawhide chew from reaching the Oval Office. This week, Republican consultant Liz Mair, who's been an outspoken leader of the Never Trumpers, joins the podcast to tell us what they plan to do.In a piece over at The Federalist, Mair outlines four possible avenues to keep Trump from winning the presidency. The simplest strategy, she tells us, is to help promote the candidacy of likely Libertarian Party candidate and former New Mexico Gov. Gary Johnson, as he provides a easy out for conservatives who would prefer to not vote for likely Democratic nominee Hillary Clinton.From there, plans get dicier. The Never Trump movement could keep working on convincing convention delegates to blow up the rules. Or, it could convince well-known Republican candidates to run on the ballot in favorable states, in an effort to deny Trump the electoral votes.Or, it can form a new political party entirely. Which is, well, not the lightest of lifts. Nevertheless, it's a testament to how much these people despise Trump that this is one of the ideas that remains up for consideration.It's clear that #NeverTrump isn't ready to throw in the towel just yet. The question is, how far is this movement willing to go, and are they ready to pay the consequences that their attempts at upheaval are certain to bring?Possible Libertarian Party candidate Gary Johnson could potentially garner the support of conservative voters who can't bring themselves to vote for Donald Trump.Jim Mone/ASSOCIATED PRESSElsewhere on this week’s podcast: North Carolina Gov. Pat McCrory (R) and U.S. Attorney General Loretta Lynch are taking to the courts to litigate the bizarre bathroom bill that McCrory signed in the hopes of antagonizing trans residents of the Tar Heel state. In addition, we talk to Roger Lowenstein about his new book, America's Bank: The Epic Struggle To Create The Federal Reserve.“So, That Happened” is hosted by Jason Linkins, Zach Carter and Arthur Delaney. Joining them this week: author Roger Lowenstein, Republican consultant and anti-Trump organizer Liz Mair, as well as Huffington Post reporters Laura Barron-Lopez and Dana Liebelson.This podcast was produced, edited and engineered by Christine Conetta.To listen to this podcast later, download our show on iTunes. While you’re there, please subscribe to, rate and review our show. You can check out other HuffPost podcasts here.Huffington Post