  
President Barack Obama on Monday signed the dissolution of the nearly 50-year embargo on selling arms to Vietnam, ending one of the last vestiges of the Vietnam War.  LETTER FROM HANOI Standing a block from the corpse of Ho Chi Minh, the president said nothing about democratic reform. 
HANOI, Vietnam — With the embalmed body of Communist national forefather Ho Chi Minh lying under lights just a block away in his gray mausoleum, President Barack Obama on Monday signed the dissolution of the nearly 50-year embargo on selling arms to Vietnam, ending one of the last vestiges of the Vietnam War.
But what Obama had to say and do about open democracy here was as sparse as the turnout in polling places here just hours before Air Force One landed — despite, of course, government numbers putting nationwide turnout for the National Assembly elections at 98.77 percent. Suspicious election results don’t usually come together with presidential visits, especially within hours, and especially when the president is arriving with a huge and much desired gift in the form of opening up arms trade.
Hanoi had been pushing Washington for years, as both a point of pride and out of desire for American weapons. The change is potentially huge for American interests, empowering pro-Western forces internally and sending a very charged signal to China, long Vietnam's regional adversary.
But neither the Americans or the Vietnamese spent any time pretending the change had anything to do with actual democratic reform. Obama didn’t make a show of calling for it. President Tran Dai Quang didn’t make a show of pretending he was for it. They both knew it would have been a joke.
Obama stood in front of the Vietnamese flag, alongside the Vietnamese president, and the closest he came to criticizing elections in which candidates could be kicked off state-approved lists for offenses such as claims they didn’t pay their sanitation fees was saying, “I made it clear that the United States does not seek to impose our form of government on Vietnam or any nation … at the same time, we will continue to speak out on human rights.”
But he didn't say whether the U.S. would take human rights violations into account on specific arm sales, though he did pat Vietnam on the back for "modest progress on some of the areas that we've identified as a concern" before pivoting to discussing the benefits of trade. It sounded a lot like Obama's general answer on how best to promote human rights: There's more actual progress to be achieved in the long term by engaging repressive countries and opening their citizens' eyes to what's possible than there is from keeping things closed.
And Obama's relative silence on the matter was not just in public — elections didn’t come up in their bilateral meeting just before the news conference either, according to a White House aide.
The president's arrival for his three-day trip on Vietnamese election day was coincidence, but the kind of coincidence that highlighted a central tension of a trip to a still-closed country like this, where dissidents are thrown in jail and foreign reporters all get state-issued minders. He’s here to reward the government for reforms made to get on board with his prized Trans-Pacific Partnership trade deal, but those rewards add up to only so much: Just ask the last prime minister, who was replaced by the Communist Party after notable moves toward more engagement.
Certainly don’t ask the Vietnamese reporters who covered Obama’s joint news conference: more Nerf balls then softballs, their questions appeared to be vetted to the point of Quang having nearly word-for-word answers pre-written in notes on his podium. That’s standard fare in Vietnam, which the State Department describes as "an authoritarian state ruled by a single party."
Obama ticked through just about every other type of collaboration — business deals and education partnerships, the Peace Corps starting to come here for the first time, the coordinated efforts to remove land mines, bombs and Agent Orange left over from the Vietnam War.
Then, the main substance of the trip: talking up the TPP and the main “deliverable” in government lingo with the lifting of the arms embargo, which Quang said signified that “both countries have completely normalized relations.”
“This change will ensure that Vietnam has access to the equipment it needs to defend itself and removes a lingering vestige of the Cold War,” Obama said, in terms that mirrored what he said in Cuba on his visit there in February.
Quang, asked by an American reporter about human rights concerns, said that his government and his party see a top responsibility as needing “to protect and promote human rights.”
And he said they’ve lived up to ensuring the rights of every Vietnamese citizen.
“Those achievements have been highly recognized and appreciated by the international community,” Quang said, pointing to Vietnam’s coming membership on the United Nations Human Rights Commission as proof. (Other members of this illustrious group include: Algeria, Cuba, Russia, and Saudi Arabia.)
None of that addressed what happened in the weekend elections, which set the government for the next five years. All across the city, red-and-yellow posters and signs promoted voting, but little activity was evident at over 10 polling places spotted during the day Sunday. Some had busts of Ho Chi Minh looming in the background. Some had men drinking tea and playing games outside. Most had a few soldiers getting comfortable in their plastic chairs. One had a coin-operated children’s ride inside.
All of them featured big white boards with approved candidates for those voters who did show up to choose from. This year’s elections were more open than previous ones, given that most non-Party candidates weren’t arrested or discovered their Facebook pages shut down and there were even protests here and in Ho Chi Minh City. But in the end, none of those people got through, cut off by government technicalities and bureaucratic hold-ups that were used as excuses.
On Tuesday, Obama will deliver a speech to the Vietnamese people and then head south to Ho Chi Minh City for a brief stop that will include meeting with several dissidents as part of a sit-down with local activists and community leaders.
On Monday, Obama didn’t really bother. He did what he did and he didn’t seem to much care what the Vietnamese had to say about the move. Toward the end of the news conference, as Quang carried on at length in response to a question about his faith in the future of the TPP, Obama’s earpiece stopped giving him an English translation.
He asked for help. Vietnamese aides started scurrying.
“It’s just, I’m sure he was saying something wise and important, and we wouldn’t want to miss it,” Obama said.
They said they’d fixed the problem. They hadn’t until after Quang finished, prompting an aide to ask him to give his answer again to allow translation, and when Obama was still getting Vietnamese in his ear, he laughed, shrugged. He wasn’t paying much attention, anyway.
But it wasn’t a problem for Quang: He just read the same prepared statement over again, and his local news media dutifully took it down. 