Credit...Sam Hodgson for The New York TimesAug. 11, 2016With both major-party presidential candidates vying for working-class voters, Hillary Clinton on Thursday followed Donald J. Trump to Michigan to outline her job-creation plans, answering his economic address on Monday in Detroit. Mrs. Clinton spoke at Futuramic Tool & Engineering Company in Macomb County, long known as a home to political ticket-splitters. Some of her statements deserved a closer look. Here are a few.Claim: “Even conservative experts say Trump’s agenda will pull our economy back into recession. And according to an independent analysis by a former economic adviser to Senator John McCain, if you add up all of Trump’s ideas — from cutting taxes for the wealthy and corporations, to starting a trade war with China, to deporting millions of hardworking immigrants — the result would be a loss of 3.4 million jobs. Now, by contrast, the same analyst found that with our plans, the economy would create more than 10 million new jobs.”Fact Check: Mrs. Clinton stretched facts to ascribe such negative findings about the Trump agenda to “conservative experts” and a former McCain adviser. She referred to an analysis of the Trump plans in June by the economic research firm Moody’s Analytics led by Mark Zandi. He did advise the McCain presidential campaign in 2008, but he also has advised Democrats, including President Obama’s team, and contributed to Mrs. Clinton’s campaign last year.Moody’s concluded that Mr. Trump’s plans would cost 3.5 million jobs and provoke “a lengthy recession” by the end of his term. That analysis does not reflect changes that Mr. Trump unveiled on Monday, which reduced the size of his tax cuts. Previously, a range of analysts estimated his tax cuts could add about $10 trillion to the federal debt over 10 years. Reducing that cost presumably could in turn reduce analysts’ projections of lost jobs and economic growth. But it remains unclear, because Mr. Trump did not provide enough detail to draw conclusions._____Claim: “We will work with both parties to pass the biggest investment in new, good-paying jobs since World War II.” To date, such investments “have been completely blocked in Congress, and American workers in communities have paid the price.”Fact Check: Mrs. Clinton was referring to her proposal for $275 billion in new infrastructure spending to build and modernize roads, bridges, airports, railways, ports, schools, water systems and more. That sum is ambitious, and indeed Mr. Obama’s annual call for a similar infrastructure program has been blocked by congressional Republicans, who object to its size and to proposals to pay for it with tax increases.But hers would not be the biggest investment since the war, allowing for inflation. That honor probably belongs to the project to build the interstate highway system, initiated during the Eisenhower administration, which cost $329 billion by the 1996 estimate of an association of automotive and highway construction industries. Adjusted for inflation 20 years later, that would be more than $500 billion._____Claim: Lack of broadband access “disadvantages kids, who are asked to do homework using the internet — five million of them live in homes without access to the internet. So you talk about an achievement gap — it starts right there.”VideotranscripttranscriptFact Check: Trump, Clinton on the EconomyThe Republican presidential nominee Donald J. Trump and his Democratic rival, Hillary Clinton, offered widely different economic proposals in Michigan this week. We fact-checked both of their speeches.n/aThe Republican presidential nominee Donald J. Trump and his Democratic rival, Hillary Clinton, offered widely different economic proposals in Michigan this week. We fact-checked both of their speeches.Fact Check: That indeed was the conclusion last year of an analysis of the “homework gap” by the Pew Research Center. It found that about 82.5 percent of the 29 million households with children ages 6 to 17 have broadband access. “This means that some five million households with school-age children do not have high-speed internet service at home. Low-income households — and especially black and Hispanic ones — make up a disproportionate share.”In households with incomes below $50,000 — about 40 percent of all families — one out of three do not have access._____Claim: “We’ve got to reverse what has become a kind of commonplace view, which is everybody needs to go to college. Well, in fact, more than half of the jobs that are going to be available in 2020 do not require a college four-year degree.”Fact Check: Mrs. Clinton was making the point that, for many people, post-high school options that she promised to promote with government help — like job-training programs and community college degrees — would be sufficient to find jobs. Studies back her up. An analysis by Georgetown University on jobs and education requirements through 2020 found that 65 percent of jobs in 2020 would require some postsecondary education. But just 35 percent of jobs would demand a four-year degree or better._____Claim: “I will stop any trade deal that kills jobs or holds down wages, including the Trans-Pacific Partnership. I oppose it now, I’ll oppose it after the election, and I’ll oppose it as president.”Fact Check: What Mrs. Clinton leaves unsaid is that she did not oppose the Trans-Pacific Partnership in the past, before she was a presidential candidate contending with Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont, a fiercely anti-trade liberal, for the Democratic nomination. As secretary of state, she backed the Obama administration’s negotiations for the trade agreement among the United States and 11 other Pacific Rim nations that would be the largest regional pact in history. Midway through years of talks that concluded in October, she called the emerging agreement the “gold standard” of trade pacts.In 2012, for example, she said in Australia, “This T.P.P. sets the gold standard in trade agreements to open free, transparent, fair trade.” But just days after the nations’ trade ministers announced a final agreement in October, Mrs. Clinton — under pressure from Mr. Sanders — expressed opposition, saying it would not raise wages for American workers._____Claim: By eliminating the estate tax as Mr. Trump proposes, “if you believe that he’s as wealthy as he says, that alone would save the Trump family $4 billion. It would do nothing for 99.8 percent of Americans.”Fact Check: Mrs. Clinton is, mischievously, giving Mr. Trump the benefit of the doubt on his claims about his net worth, as she indicated. As such, her calculation could be about right, though it is impossible to know what taxes Mr. Trump’s heirs would pay upon his death without knowing his actual net worth and what estate-tax planning he has done — like nearly all wealthy people — to reduce the liability.The businessman has said his net worth is about $10 billion, though even some Republicans have expressed doubt and attributed Mr. Trump’s refusal to release his federal income tax returns to the possibility those would prove he is worth less. The top rate for estate and gift taxes is 40 percent on amounts above $5.45 million (or double that, shielding the first $10.9 million from taxation, if his wife, Melania, survived him). Roughly apply that rate to $10 billion, and estate taxes would be in the range of $4 billion. Mrs. Clinton is also correct that most Americans, including wealthy ones, are not affected now by estate taxes. According to the Internal Revenue Service, they apply to 0.2 percent of estates.