Payroll growth was disappointing for a second straight month in September as employers added 156,000 jobs, which raised questions about the health of an economy that was expected to perk up from a prolonged slump in the second half of the year.The unemployment rate rose to 5% from 4.9%, the Labor Department said Friday, as a rise in employment was more than offset by a sharp increase in the labor force, or the number of Americans working and looking for jobs.Economists surveyed by Bloomberg had forecast 172,000 payroll gains.Businesses added 167,000 jobs, led by professional and business services and health care. Federal, state and local governments cut 11,000.Job gains for July and August were revised down by 7,000.Average hourly wages rose 6 cents to $25.79 and are up 2.6% the past year, roughly in line with recent increases. Wage growth has picked up this year from the 2% pace that has marked much of the recovery but hasn't climbed as much as expected in light of the near-normal unemployment rate. The Fed seeks stronger earnings gains and inflation before raising interest rates again. The Fed has stood pat since lifting its key rate in December for the first time in nine years.The tepid payroll increases "won’t stop the Fed from hiking interest rates at the December ... meeting, but it should quell any speculation of a move at the November meeting," economist Paul Ashworth of Capital Economics wrote in a note to clients.One reason wage growth was restrained is that the labor force increased by 444,000 as some discouraged workers on the sidelines resumed their job searches in a more vibrant labor market. That nudged up the labor force participation rate — the portion of adults working or looking for jobs — which has risen to 62.9% from 62.4% a year ago.“It’s another bellwether of confidence,” Labor Secretary Thomas Perez said in an interview. “People are participating because they can get jobs.”Although the trend has kept the unemployment rate from falling this year and tempered pay increases, it’s helping heal a labor market that was badly bruised in the Great Recession. Last month, Fed Chair Janet Yellen said policymakers left interest rates unchanged, largely to encourage more economic activity and a return of discouraged workers to the labor force.Other positives: The average workweek picked up to 34.4 hours from 34.3 hours, and employers added 23,000 temporary workers. When businesses increase the hours of employees and bring on more temps, they’re often inclined to ramp up permanent hiring in the months ahead.The job market has been volatile this year. Unusually weak showings in the spring preceded blockbuster gains averaging more than 250,000 in June and July. A lackluster performance in August was at least partly blamed on Labor’s tendency to initially underestimate employment growth that month by an average 62,000 over the past five years, based on subsequent revisions.Will schizophrenic job market show good side?A similar but less pronounced pattern has plagued September. Labor’s count was revised up by an average 36,000 during the five-year period. Varying starts to the school year and the completion of summer jobs can affect seasonal adjustments for both months.The September report is likely to be closely scrutinized by the Fed, which has indicated it plans to raise interest rates in coming months for the first time in 2016, assuming jobs and other data support the move.Average monthly job growth has slowed to 178,000 this year from its booming 229,000 pace in 2015, but that could be a natural result of a low unemployment rate that supplies employers with a smaller pool of available workers. Some Fed policymakers have noted that only about 100,000 payroll gains a month are needed to bring down the jobless rate.Here's why shifts in job market favor women"Job openings are at record highs, yet you're not seeing job growth pick up," says David Berson, chief economist of Nationwide. "Employers are having a difficult time finding what they consider to be qualified workers."Other economists have attributed the labor market’s subdued performance to factors such as a sluggish economy since late last year, the oil industry slump, weakness overseas and business uncertainty because of the presidential election.Some recent data highlight an economy and labor market that remain on solid footing. A service sector activity report this week revealed the largest increase in hiring on record last month. And initial jobless claims, a gauge of layoffs, remain near pre-recession lows.Payroll processor ADP estimated that businesses added 154,000 jobs in September.Last month, Labor said, professional and business services added 67,000 jobs; construction, 23,000; retailers and health care, 22,000 each; and leisure and hospitality, 15,000. Manufacturers cut 13,000 jobs in a sign they are still beset by the energy sector's troubles and a weak global economy.