 Republican presidential candidate Donald Trump speaks at a campaign rally, Tuesday, Oct. 18, 2016, in Grand Junction, Colo. (AP Photo/ Brennan Linsley) The Associated PressLAS VEGAS -- The final presidential debate of the 2016 campaign here Wednesday night is shaping up to be the last substantial opportunity for Donald Trump to fundamentally alter a race that is breaking demonstrably in favor of Hillary Clinton.A ream of battleground state polls released three weeks from Election Day is showing Clinton as a sturdy front-runner with consistent leads and an array of pathways to 270 electoral votes. Trump, on the other hand, is sounding increasingly morose, claiming he no longer trusts the polling he heralded for so many months and blaming a likely loss on a "rigged system."Whereas Trump is fighting from behind in must-win states like North Carolina and Florida, Clinton is pouring resources into ruby red states like Arizona and Texas that, if she carried, would amount to an electoral landslide for Democrats at all levels. Even some allies are speculating it will take a "miracle" for Trump to mount a comeback at this late point."Donald Trump is becoming more unhinged by the day and that is increasing prospects for Democrats further down the ballot because of higher than expected turnout and enthusiasm," said Clinton campaign manager Robby Mook on a conference call Monday outlining the campaign's incursion into Republican turf. "Donald Trump's campaign is spiraling. He knows he's losing and he's trying to blame that on the system. That's what losers do."The stakes are undoubtedly high for Trump in the third 90-minute debate -- moderated by Fox News' Chris Wallace -- at the University of Nevada in Las Vegas. In the first debate, Trump was loose with the facts and ill-prepared, missing several opportunities to place Clinton on the defensive. In the second debate, he came off as aggressive, but overheated, unleashing rounds of personal invective against the former secretary of state.This debate will likely feature uncomfortable questions for the GOP nominee about the stream of allegations over the past week and a half from women who allege Trump made unwanted sexual advances towards them. Trump has called the claims fabricated, but how he handles his denial before a debate audience of tens of millions will go a long way to determine if can improve his miserable standing with women.For Clinton, the sore spot will be the rolling disclosures from Wikileaks, which have published more than 17,000 emails from her campaign chairman John Podesta. Clinton may be forced to explain her chumminess with Wall Street executives behind closed doors and why she framed legislative reforms differently in private than she did publicly. The Clinton campaign has refused to even authenticate the emails, raising a difficult decision for the candidate if she's put on the spot.But if Trump has the discipline and precision to raise the most awkward emails in a compelling manner, it could be risky for Clinton to ignore the charges."It appears she'd like to let him speak as much as he wants, but it strikes me as an unusual strategy to say, 'Hey, my best strategy to winning this election is to say as little as possible,'" said Stephanie Martin, an associate professor of communication at Southern Methodist University.Whereas Clinton has not held a public campaign event since last Wednesday -- preferring to hunker down for the debate and stay out of the news glare -- Trump has continued with his daily rallies, where he has mocked his opponent's disappearance from the trail. "You know what the debate prep is? It's resting. It's lying down, going to sleep," Trump charged during his rally in Colorado Springs, Colorado, Tuesday.Trump is clearly aiming to be seen as grasping the mantle of change, having unveiled an ethics plan on the eve of the debate that includes a pledge to push for a constitutional amendment imposing congressional term limits. He also said he would seek to crack down on lobbying by instituting a 5-year ban on executive branch officials from lobbying the federal government and asking Congress to do impose the same restrictions on its members and staff. Trump came out in favor of a lifetime ban against senior executive branch officials lobbying on behalf of a foreign government and said he would ask Congress to pass legislation that would prevent foreign lobbyists from raising money in U.S. elections. The ethics package rollout was paired with a new television advertisement that highlights Clinton's long career in Washington and boasts that "Donald Trump will turn Washington upside down, Day One." A debate win for Trump would mean delicately combatting the allegations of sexual abuse, while not demeaning his accusers and smoothly moving beyond it, using the Wikileaks disclosures to forcefully prosecute Clinton as untrustworthy and positioning himself as the radical, if irregular reform agent that Washington needs.Anything less than that will only hasten the prognosticators and professionals calls to write off his campaign for good. 