President-elect Donald Trump, who vowed to ”drain the swamp” in Washington, on Sunday chose the chairman of the GOP as his top employee. Reince Priebus, called “the face of the GOP establishment,” will serve as Trump’s chief of staff, running his White House team and deciding what issues come before him.And while that raised the eyebrows of some Trump supporters (including former KKK leader David Duke), Sunday’s more talked-about appointment was perhaps Stephen Bannon, Trump’s campaign CEO who’s embraced an “alt-right” movement of white nationalists.It’s For the Record, the politics newsletter from USA TODAY.Alt-right in the White HouseTrump’s decision to name Bannon as chief strategist and senior counselor drew criticism from Republicans and Democrats for his recent tenure as president of Breitbart News. The site, which dedicates a page to “black crime,” has published stories comparing feminism to cancer and extolling the Confederate flag’s “glorious heritage.”Before joining Trump’s team in August, Bannon called Breitbart a “platform for the alt-right,” a fringe movement of white nationalists and racists. Now he’ll report to Trump as a top adviser.Bannon said that he looked forward to continuing the “very successful partnership” from the campaign. Others were less enthused."It is a sad day when a man who presided over the premiere website of the 'alt right' — a loose-knit group of white nationalists and unabashed anti-Semites and racists — is slated to be a senior staff member in the 'people's house,'” Jonathan Greenblatt, CEO of the Anti-Defamation League, said in a statement.If Bannon’s appointment is a nod to the grassroots support that energized Trump’s campaign, Priebus could act as a counterbalance to comfort the GOP establishment. But there’s more drama than that: Priebus is a close ally of Paul Ryan, the House speaker often targeted by Breitbart.“Now I will have them both with me in the White House as we work to make America great again,” Trump said in a statement.Trump softens some stances on ‘60 minutes’Since the election, hundreds of reports of hate crimes and harassment haves surfaced. Trump’s words? “Stop it.”That’s what he offered during a 60 Minutes interview that aired Sunday. The interview aired after a spike in reported hate-related incidents following Trump’s win, as tracked by the Southern Poverty Law Center.After Tuesday, an Indiana church was vandalized with the words “Heil Trump.” A video spread of Pennsylvania students carrying a Trump sign and saying “white power.” In Michigan, high school boys surrounded a female student and shouted “lock her up” and elementary-age students posted signs on their lockers that read “I don’t like gays.”"That's terrible because I'm going to bring this country together,” Trump said of the incidents.On 60 Minutes, Trump also seemed to temper some of his campaign’s promises. He’ll initially restrict his deportations to “criminals” in the country illegally, he said. And the “wall” he famously touted may look more like a fence in some places. He’s also mentioned amending Obamacare instead of fully repealing it.Trump also said he’d turn down his presidential salary, following John F. Kennedy and Herbert Hoover in doing so, IJR reported.Around the AftermathObamacare is doomed. Now what? (Milwaukee Journal Sentinel)Will Obamacare’s birth control coverage survive the overhaul? Paul Ryan can’t say (USA TODAY)Protests of Trump’s election continued into a fifth straight day (USA TODAY)Pipeline protesters dig in as Trump’s presidency nears (Argus Leader)There’s the candidate Trump we knewIn that 60 Minutes interview that aired Sunday, Trump said he would be “very restrained” on Twitter as president. That morning, he sent three tweets insulting the New York Times.