The election of failed casino owner and alleged crotch-grabber Donald J. Trump as president of the United States represents a number of historic firsts. He’ll be the first U.S. president to have previously hosted a reality television show. He’ll be the first U.S. president to remark that if his daughter wasn’t his daughter, he’d be dating her. He’ll be the first U.S. president to publicly utter the words “You know, it really doesn’t matter what the media write as long as you’ve got a young, and beautiful, piece of ass.” And, according to Reuters, he’ll be the first sitting president to have paid millions of dollars to settle lawsuits accusing him of defrauding thousands of students through a get-rich-quick scheme called Trump University, a now-defunct real-estate program that allegedly charged as much as $35,000 to learn how to become the next Donald Trump.Trump has agreed to settle lawsuits relating to his Trump University series of real estate seminars for $25 million, a source familiar with the situation said on Friday. Claims brought by New York's attorney general [Eric Schneiderman] will represent roughly $4 million of that amount, the source said.According to Schneiderman, Trump likely made nearly $5 million off of his pupils, despite having little involvement with the program, while Trump University enrollees may have lost $40 million. Other allegations against the school include the use of predatory sales tactics to pressure vulnerable students into signing up for the most expensive courses; that instructors (some of them former fast-food or retail workers with little training) were encouraged to use the line “Trump is the best” when encountering resistance; and that graduates were promised they would get to pose for a photo with Trump (they were instead allegedly offered a “cardboard cutout” of him). There’s also the remarkable matter of the Trump University employee playbook, which included instructions on what to do “If an attorney general arrives on the scene.”Trump, who previously bragged, “I don’t settle cases,” had been adamant that he would win the Trump University case and that he preferred it go to court:Apparently there was a clause in there for “Unless I am somehow, inexplicably elected president of the United States.” Taking the witness stand to defend your company against fraud charges while serving as commander-in-chief is not a good look for anybody.This post has been updated.