  Every newly elected President is entitled to assemble the management team of his choice. That is why, of the roughly 1,000 senior administration officials requiring a Senate confirmation, the vast majority are confirmed by a simple voice vote.  But what if the President-elect nominates someone whose career has been dedicated to undermining the agency he has been chosen to lead, and opposing the laws he would be asked to enforce?  That is the situation now that President-elect Donald Trump announced his intention to nominate Oklahoma Attorney General Scott Pruitt to lead the Environmental Protection Agency. Pruitt has a record of opposing many of the clean air, clean water and environmental health protections that Americans overwhelmingly support.  These protections are the bedrock of this country's environmental legacy. Protecting them is EPA's job. Since its creation almost 50 years ago under Republican President Richard Nixon, EPA has focused on improving the lives of American families. And it has been very good at its job. As the U.S. economy has expanded, our air and water has become dramatically cleaner — and the economic benefits have outweighed the costs by as much as 30 to 1. This is an American success story.   Let me stipulate that not every environmental regulation is well designed. But the trend since the era of President George H.W. Bush has been away from onerous command-and-control and toward flexible rules, giving business the freedom to deploy least-cost solutions while meeting strict environmental standards. That is how EPA and a bipartisan Congress solved the acid rain crisis that was killing the lakes and forests of the northeastern United States.  My organization has been part of this bipartisan history. We worked closely with President Bush to create the successful market-based program to reduce acid rain, and this year joined with some of the most conservative members of the Senate to reform our toxic chemical safety law. We understand that strong, durable environmental policies must be economically efficient.   Effective and efficient environmental rules, however, have not been Pruitt's focus. Instead, he has made attacking environmental protection the cornerstone of his political career. Since becoming Oklahoma's attorney general five years ago, Pruitt has tried to stop national efforts to reduce soot and smog pollution that crosses interstate lines. He has sued EPA to stop limits on emissions of toxic mercury, arsenic, acid gases and other toxic pollutants from power plants. He has sought to block efforts to improve air quality in national parks and wilderness areas. Each time, he has failed, with courts dismissing his arguments and confirming EPA's legal and scientific views.  Pruitt characterizes these legal challenges as a righteous assault on overweening federal power. But their real impact would have been simply to allow the powerful to pollute without legal consequence — while doing real harm to American families. The common-sense efforts he sought block are cutting pollution, saving lives, preventing dangerous brain-development issues in children, reducing asthma attacks and increasing worker productivity.   Donald Trump's road to the White House as President-elect    Pruitt also doubts the established science of climate change. He has questioned "the degree and extent of global warming and its connection to the actions of mankind." That would make him perhaps the only national environmental chief in the world to hold that view. It is a position at odds with overwhelming scientific consensus, majority American opinion and the views of most leading corporations.  The Daily News Flash Newsletter Weekdays Catch up on the day’s top five stories every weekday afternoon.  We have long promoted new ideas, alternative approaches and policies that recognize the power of the marketplace. But that is not the EPA we will get under Pruitt, if his long record is any indication. We have no choice but to judge him by his actions and conclude he would seek the wholesale removal of critical health protections.  America needs an EPA administrator who is guided by science, respects our environmental laws and prioritizes public health ahead of the wishes of narrow special interests. We cannot turn away from our bipartisan history of environmental protection or try to hold back the clean energy revolution. Turing away now would not only damage our health, it would give away international leadership and fast growing clean energy jobs to Europe and China. It would isolate America and limit access to markets for our companies.  Stability, progress and prosperity can only be achieved by going forward, not by turning back.  Most Americans now take for granted both a clean environment and the growing role of clean energy in our economy. Turn back on those promises and they will rebel. Pruitt's vision represents an unworkable, unhealthy return to the pollution of the last century. Americans did not vote for that.  Krupp is president of the Environmental Defense Fund.   featured opinion  donald trump  donald trump transition  