    Rex Tillerson will need to explain not only the next president’s philosophy toward Vladimir Putin but also his own. | AP Photo Rex Tillerson enters his secretary of state confirmation hearing Wednesday as Donald Trump’s highest profile pick to face GOP resistance, giving the former ExxonMobil CEO little leeway for missteps if he wants to win quick confirmation.
With Trump’s lack of foreign policy experience and his pro-Russia tilt drawing questions from Republicans and condemnations from Democrats, Tillerson will need to explain not only the next president’s philosophy toward Vladimir Putin but also his own. At ExxonMobil, Tillerson developed a chummy relationship with Putin and he opposed sanctions directed at Russia – generating unease among a bloc of hawkish Republicans. But Sen. Marco Rubio is the lone GOP Tillerson skeptic on the Senate Foreign Relations Committee that will examine Tillerson, and the Floridian who lost to Trump in the primary isn’t tipping his hand on Tillerson ahead of the hearing that’s expected to stretch over two days. If Democrats on the panel all vote against Tillerson, Rubio may find himself as the deciding voice on whether Tillerson clears the committee or goes to the full Senate floor vote with an “unfavorable” recommendation. Rubio’s questions on Russia and Tillerson’s worldview could be the most consequential portion of the secretary of state hopeful’s confirmation hearing, but Tillerson will be blitzed by Democrats on topics ranging from human rights to climate change to his complicated personal finances to test his ability to think on his feet. "Mexico and our trade with Mexico ... Cuba ... and then probably climate change," said Sen. Tom Udall (D-N.M.), a panel member, as he ticked off all his concerns. "He's indicated that he wants [to give tax information]. That might be an area to explore too."
Here’s POLITICO’s guide to Tillerson’s confirmation hearing: Russia and Rubio
Sens. John McCain (Ariz) and Lindsey Graham (S.C.).and Rubio hold the keys to Tillerson’s confirmation. McCain said in an interview this week that he still has “concerns” about Tillerson. If those hawks aren’t convinced that the oil executive is appropriately cool to Putin and Russia as secretary of state, it would signal deeper problems for Tillerson’s fate.
Tillerson has done at least three mock confirmation hearings -- called “murder boards” -- and the people running them are confident he can answer difficult questions. He’s likely to give simple and vague answers about his previous work with Russia, according to a transition source familiar with the preparations. Tillerson can win confirmation on Republican votes alone, needing only a simple majority since the chamber’s rule change 2013. Since McCain and Graham are not on the committee, Rubio may have the best chance of drawing out Tillerson’s feelings on Russia, but he shrugged off the notion that he would only concentrate on Russia, and said his questioning will cover the “whole world.”
“I’ll do what I believe is the right thing for America,” Rubio said in an interview. "We’re going to be fair, we’re going to take it very seriously. It’s a very important position,” Rubio said. The committee’s chairman, Bob Corker of Tennessee, has said Tillerson is well-prepared to face skepticism about his foreign policy readiness and predicted he will win broad support from the Senate. But if Tillerson makes a misstep, particularly on Russia, it could undermine his support within the Republican Party.
How Democrats deal with Tillerson
Interviews with several Democrats indicate their cross-examination will center on how the man who helmed the massive energy conglomerate for a decade can change course to focus solely on the interests of the United States. Expect lots of questions about how Tillerson can avoid conflicts of interest related to ExxonMobil, which operates in dozens of countries around the world. “If you’re the CEO of ExxonMobil your responsibility is to shareholders. If you’re a potential secretary of state you’re responsibility is to the American people,” said Sen. Ben Cardin (D-Md.), the panel’s top Democrat. “Your relationship with Russia -- how would you have handled that relationship as secretary of state?”
But it's not just Russia. Democratic Leader Chuck Schumer of New York said on Tuesday that he hopes his party also concentrates on ExxonMobil's dealings with Iran, an exceedingly unpopular country in most senators' views. "Did Mr. Tillerson direct his company to deal with a state sponsor of terrorism to simply line the company’s pockets? These are questions that Rex Tillerson must answer at his hearing," Schumer said. A fair climate?
Tillerson’s long public record on energy policy is ripe for scrutiny. Those questions can cut both ways: Exxon has backed groups that dispute climate change science and is in a legal dispute over whether it misrepresented its knowledge of the threat from greenhouse gases. But it’s also drawn scorn from conservatives for recommending a carbon tax as the best policy to slow rising global temperatures. “The thing that I’m probably most concerned about is ExxonMobil’s history of funding climate denial,” said Sen. Tim Kaine (D-Va.), a committee member. Tillerson has sought to stake out some green stances, supporting the 2015 Paris climate agreement that’s been virulently opposed by many Republicans, and he’s criticized coal -- a parochial cause of many senators. At the Council on Foreign Relations in 2012, he touted natural gas as superior to coal because it has “none of the other elements that are of concern to public health.”
Coal-state senators will be watching Tillerson closely to see whether his rhetoric jibes with Trump, who campaigned as a friend of the coal states. Sen. Shelley Moore Capito (R-W.Va.) said she’s spoken to Tillerson about the matter and found him to be responsive. “He expressed to me the desire to move forward with research and development for clean coal technologies and carbon capture. And I think that’s the future of coal. So I’m not concerned,” she said.
Is Tillerson ready?Often overlooked in the back-and-forth over Tillerson’s multimillion-dollar divestiture agreement with ExxonMobil and his Order of Friendship award from Russia is that the business executive has no governing experience.
“It’s a fair statement to say that there’s a learning curve here on foreign policy for someone who has not served in a foreign policy,” Cardin said. “What I want to understand is how he comes to make those decisions.”
Cardin said in his private meeting with Tillerson he brought up the U.S.’ role in defending human rights, fighting human trafficking and cracking down on corruption -- issues that he said probably weren’t on Tillerson’s radar at ExxonMobil but are important for the nation’s top diplomat.
But Corker says his own research indicated that Democrats are privately finding Tillerson is on the same page as them on some of their progressive priorities.
“Some of the meetings with Democrats, I think they’ve been surprised on his positions on a number of things they care about deeply,” Corker said. Will Tillerson’s performance affect quick confirmation? Tillerson is one of two Trump nominees who will have hearings that will span more than one day, the other being Sen. Jeff Sessions’s (R-Ala.) hearing to be Trump’s attorney general. Corker said he doesn’t want to stuff Democrats and is eager to maintain his bipartisan reputation for working with them, not against. Corker has suggested his hearing will be wide-ranging and free-wheeling. “We’ll continue as long as we want to ask questions. There are a lot of Republicans that want to ask questions. That part’s not partisan. Many of the members of the committee have a lot of questions,” Corker said .
But at the same time he is hopeful that his committee can get Tillerson’s nomination through his committee before Inauguration Day, suggesting a swift confirmation process will follow even a lengthy hearing. Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell is hoping to prioritize Tillerson's confirmation, but Democrats may delay those efforts depending on his Wednesday performance. Eli Stokols contributed to this report. 
