Congressional Democrats may have accepted the outcome of the election by now, but that doesn't mean they have to like it.Since December, several dozen House members have said they will not attend Donald Trump's inauguration Friday. The number of Democratic representatives multiplied after Trump insulted John Lewis, the veteran House member and civil rights leader, on Twitter.Some simply said they cannot participate in a ceremony that celebrates a president whose platforms contradict their constituents. Others said they will save their energy for the Women's March on Washington, a demonstration including women's rights activists and anti-Trump protesters, scheduled for the next day in the nation's capital.Here's a running state-by-state list of which representatives have said they are skipping out:AlabamaRep. Terri Sewell said in a statement that she wouldn’t attend because of the “blatant disrespect shown by President-elect Trump towards American civil rights icon, my colleague, friend and mentor, the Honorable John Lewis.”Sewell did, however, invite Trump and Lewis to join her at the iconic Selma bridge “to walk hand-in-hand across that bridge as one nation, indivisible and united.ArizonaRep. Raúl Grijalva announced Jan. 13 from the House chamber that he would boycott the inauguration. Instead, he said, he will march back home with his constituents.“My absence is not motivated by disrespect for the office, or motivated by disrespect for the government that we have in this great democracy," he said, "but as an individual act – yes, of defiance – at the disrespect shown to millions and millions of Americans by this incoming administration."He reminded his peers that while Trump won the election, he lost the popular vote. Grijalva said those who voted against Trump and even those who did not vote because of dissatisfaction of both parties deserve respect.Rep. Ruben Gallego also announced Jan. 17 he also would not be attending the inauguration out of protest.CaliforniaCalifornia is the state with the largest congressional delegation and the most members avoiding the inauguration. There's Rep. Jared Huffman, who on Jan. 7 wrote on Facebook that he would not "sit passively" and celebrate Trump's presidency."I do accept the election results and support the peaceful transfer of power, but it is abundantly clear to me that with Donald Trump as our President, the United States is entering a dark and very dangerous political chapter," he said. "I will do everything I can to limit the damage and the duration of this chapter, and I believe we can get through it."Rep. Zoe Lofgren made similar comments to the Los Angeles Times when she told them she wasn't attending.Rep. Barbara Lee told USA TODAY that while she would attend Trump's State of the Union in the future, she would not be at the inauguration. Lee said she didn't want to participate in an event made to “celebrate and applaud” Trump over the things he has said.Rep. Mark DeSaulnier outlined his reasons for not attending in the following video:Several more House members from California decided to boycott the inauguration after Trump insulted Lewis."I'm not going to normalize his behavior," Rep. Ted Lieu told MSNBC. "He's attacked Gold Star parents, veterans such as John McCain, Latinos, Muslim Americans and now John Lewis."Meanwhile, Rep. Maxine Waters said she never planned on attending Trump's inauguration anyway.Rep. Lucille Roybal-Allard, the first Mexican-American woman elected to Congress, told Fusion, " the disparaging remarks the President-elect has made about many groups, including women, Mexicans, and Muslims, are deeply contrary to my values. As a result, I will not be attending the Inauguration."Rep. Karen Bass took to social media to have her constituents decide whether she should attend the inauguration. The majority of the Twitter poll's respondents said no.On Jan. 17, Bass announced she would not be attending.Rep. Alan Lowenthal also said he had decided not to attend the inauguration following Trump’s attacks on Lewis.The Los Angeles Times also reported that Reps. Grace Napolitano, Raul Ruiz, Juan Vargas, Tony Cárdenas, Judy Chu, Jerry McNerney and Mark Takano won't be attending.FloridaRep. Darren Soto cited Trump's attacks on Lewis as the reason he was skipping“I am deeply disappointed with Trump’s attacks against civil rights hero John Lewis and will not be attending the inauguration as a result,” he told WFTV 9.Reps. Alcee Hastings and Fredreka Wilson have also said they will not attend.GeorgiaLewis' announcement that he wouldn't attend the inauguration sparked a response from the president-elect, which prompted other House Democrats to follow suit.He told NBC news last week, “I don’t see this president-elect as a legitimate president … I think the Russians participated in helping this man get elected.”That's when Trump tweeted that Lewis was "all talk" and suggested he pay more attention to his "crime infested" district.KentuckyJohn Yarmuth, Kentucky's lone Democratic congressman, said in a radio interview Monday that he would not attend. Trump, he said, has embarrassed the office of the president."After a great deal of thought, I’ve decided not to attend the inauguration — partially out of deference to my friend John Lewis, who was attacked in a historically inaccurate and insulting way, but more importantly, because I thought about the fact that leading up to the election and up until this weekend, Donald Trump has consistently behaved in a way that has helped destroy a lot of the dignity of the presidency," Yarmuth said.New HampshireRep. Carol Shea-Porter said she would pray instead of attend the inauguration.IllinoisRep. Luis Gutierrez announced early on he would boycott the inauguration. He first told CNN in December and in January delivered a speech on the House floor explaining his decision."We all heard the tape when Donald Trump was bragging — bragging! — about grabbing women by their private parts without their consent," he said. "It is something I can never un-hear."Instead, Gutierrez said he and his wife will attend the Women's March on Washington the next day.Rep. Jan Schakowsky announced Jan. 18 she would join her colleagues in skipping he inauguration. She will also attend the Women's March.MaineRep. Chellie Pingree said Monday at a dinner in Portland, Maine, that she wouldn't attend the inauguration."President-elect Trump’s actions go beyond any kind of reasonable debate — they threaten the constitutional values our country is based on," Pingree said in a statement. "I won’t dignify or normalize those threats by standing by at his ceremony."MarylandAnthony Brown, the former lieutenant governor who was elected to Congress in November, said he was skipping the inauguration after Trump's tweets about Lewis.Liberal freshman Rep. Jamie Raskin also said he won't attend. "The moral and political legitimacy of this presidency are in the gravest doubt," he said in a statement.MassachusettsRep. Katherine Clark said in a statement Jan. 5 that while she respects the office Trump will take over, she believes Trump's policies will threaten the well-being of all Americans. "After discussions with my constituents, I do not feel that I can contribute to normalization of the president-elect's divisive rhetoric by participating in the inauguration."MichiganA spokesman for Rep. John Conyers told The Hill that he will not attend the inauguration. Conyers, who took office in 1965, is the longest-serving House member and a founding member of the Congressional Black Caucus.MinnesotaRep. Keith Ellison said in a tweet, "I will not celebrate a man who preaches a politics of division and hate. I won't be attending Donald Trump's inauguration."MissouriA spokesman for Rep. William Lacy Clay told the St. Louis Dispatch last week that the congressman will spend Inauguration Day back in St. Louis, speaking with school kids.New JerseyRep. Bonnie Watson Coleman will host an interfaith prayer vigil on Friday in lieu of her attendance at the inauguration.“The constituents of the New Jersey’s Twelfth District is a cross section of the many groups and millions of Americans that this incoming Administration has turned its back on," Watson Coleman said in a news release. "Our nation is founded on democracy and inclusion that unfortunately our president-elect refuses to represent."Rep. Donald M. Payne Jr. said he will skip the inauguration because he "will not celebrate his swearing-in to an office that he has proven unfit to hold.”"His actions and statements have consistently been below the dignity of the office, and there’s no indication that will change. Donald Trump will be our president, and I will work with him if my values permit, and if doing so is in the best interest of my constituents and the nation," Payne said in a statement. "But I will not celebrate his swearing-in to an office that he has proven unfit to hold."New YorkRep. José Serrano tweeted last week that he will not attend the ceremony. Since then, several more House members from New York have announced they will not go, including Jerry Nadler, Adriano Espaillat and Nydia Velazquez.Rep. Yvette Clarke joined the inauguration boycott to support Lewis, tweeting "When you insult @repjohnlewis, you insult America."Rep. Grace Meng said: "I will work with Mr. Trump whenever possible, but this weekend I march.”Rep. Louise Slaughter described Lewis as “like a brother to me” and said she would not attend.North CarolinaRep. G.K. Butterfield said that he could not "in good conscious attend the inaugural ceremony for President-elect Donald Trump."Butterfield said on Twitter that Trump was divisive and "I believe it would be hurtful to my constituents for me to attend the inauguration."Rep. Alma Adams said she would be "staying home to continue working toward our priorities and to meet with constituents, many of whom are fearful of what lies ahead."OhioShowing solidarity with Lewis, Rep. Marcia Fudge said she would stay in Cleveland on Friday.OregonReps. Earl Blumenauer and Kurt Schrader, told Oregon Public Radio that they will attend anti-Trump events instead of going to the inauguration.Blumenauer, who claims to have attended every inauguration since he took office two decades ago, said this one was “not a productive use of my time.”Rep. Peter DeFazio said he usually avoids inaugurations and Friday will be no exception.PennsylvaniaCiting the Affordable Care Act repeal, Russian hacking and Lewis, Rep. Dwight Evans tweeted that he would not attend the inauguration.Rep. Mike Doyle said he also would skip the inauguration and cited Trump's attacks on Lewis in a tweet.Rep. Brendan Boyle said on Facebook he couldn't celebrate something he believed "is a grave mistake."TexasRep. Joaquin Castro said he'd stick around D.C. to welcome constituents who were coming for the inauguration but he wouldn't attend the event himself."Every American should respect the office of the presidency and the fact that Donald Trump will be the 45th President of the United States. But winning an election does not mean a man can show contempt for millions of Americans and then expect those very people to celebrate him," Castro said in a statement.Rep. Lloyd Doggett said also wouldn't be attending the inauguration."I cannot participate in the inauguration of a person who calls women 'dogs,' " said Rep. Al Green.Rep. Filemon Vela announced Thursday he wouldn't attend the inauguration following some the harassment of migrant students from his district in Washington and Trump's announcement of his final cabinet pick Friday. By nominating former Georgia governor Sonny Perdue to the post of secretary of Agriculture Trump completed his cabinet without one Hispanic.VirginiaRep. Don Beyer said on Twitter he would not be attending the inauguration for a variety of reasons, including the alleged Russian hacking of election emails.WashingtonRep. Pramila Jayapal said she will not attend the inauguration. She will be in Washington for an immigration roundtable Friday and for the Women's March on Saturday.Rep. Adam Smith said that he also won't attend the inauguration, but it isn't anything against Trump — though he said he has plenty of issues with Trump's proposals and statements. Instead, Smith said he's skipping because "I’d prefer to be home."This isn't the first time he's skipped an inauguration either; according to The Stranger he's only attended two inaugurations in the 10 terms he's been in Congress.TennesseeRep. Steve Cohen told WMC Action News 5 that while he "would love to attend the inauguration" he wasn't going to because "this president semi-elect does not deserve to be President of the United States. He has not exhibited the characteristics and the values that we hold dear."WisconsinRep. Mark Pocan, citing Russian hacking and offensive Trump tweets, said he will not be at the ceremony.But there are some Democrats who say they'll be there despite their concerns about the president-elect.Wisconsin Rep. Gwen Moore said she'd be at the inauguration because she wanted to be the face of resistance.“I support my colleagues in their decision to boycott the Presidential Inauguration, but knowing how he operates, I suspect President-elect Donald Trump will use this expression of free speech as an excuse to bypass Democrats and to push his extreme agenda with utter impunity. With that in mind, I refuse to be a pawn in the president-elect’s efforts to rally support from congressional Republicans," Moore said in a statement. "As a proud Democrat, I want President-elect Trump to see me front and center as he’s sworn in. I want him to see exactly what his opposition looks like. When he sees me, I want him to see The Resistance."Texas Rep. Gene Green said that he would be attending the inauguration and he cited the fact that Trump’s general election opponent would be. “I will attend the Inaugural ceremony to observe the peaceful transfer of authority in our government. I am attending for the same reasons that Secretary Clinton decided to attend — patriotism and a deep commitment to our Republic, not to endorse President-Elect Trump.”But Arizona freshman Rep.Tom O’Halleran announced he'd be there and did not bring up any of Trump's past comments or proposals. Instead, the Republican-turned-Democrat cited his desire to work with "anyone, regardless of party, to move our country forward.”“The peaceful transfer of power from one president to another is a hallmark of our democracy,” said O’Halleran. “I will be attending the inauguration this week, and I will maintain my open door policy to work with anyone, regardless of party, to move our country forward.”Contributing: The (Louisville) Courier-Journal, The (East Brunswick, N.J.) Home News Tribune.