Credit...J. Scott Applewhite/Associated PressMarch 24, 2017WASHINGTON — At the end of the long day, the alliance of conservative ideologues who once shut down the government over President Barack Obama’s health care law could not find the will to repeal it.Since the Tea Party wave of 2010 that swept House Republicans into power, a raucous, intransigent and loosely aligned group of lawmakers known as the Freedom Caucus — most from heavily Republican districts — has often landed a punch to its own party’s face.Friday’s defeat of the Republican leadership’s bill to repeal the Affordable Care Act was a return to form, handing an immense defeat to President Trump and embarrassing Speaker Paul D. Ryan in his own House. It also challenged the veracity of their long-held claims that a Republican president was all they needed to get big things accomplished.The most important question for Republicans now is whether the members of the Freedom Caucus will find themselves newly emboldened in ways that may bring the new president more defeats — or whether Mr. Ryan will do what former Speaker John A. Boehner could not, and find a way to shred their influence for good.“If you are defined by your opposition to leadership, it’s hard to be part of a governing coalition,” said Alex Conant, a onetime aide to Senator Marco Rubio, the Florida Republican who was once a Tea Party star. “Their opposition to Trump’s health care bill should surprise nobody who’s paid attention for the last six years. Even the world’s best negotiator can’t make a deal with someone who never compromises.”But the Freedom Caucus has never been about compromise. In 2011, it picked a huge, costly fight over Planned Parenthood. In 2013, it orchestrated a government shutdown over funding for the health care law. Then, in its most striking move, it deposed Mr. Boehner in 2015. The common thread: It has continuously been an adversary of legislation itself.VideotranscripttranscriptRepublicans Withdraw Their Health BillPresident Trump faced stiff opposition from lawmakers in his own party to the measure he had endorsed, and it was withdrawn.President Trump campaigned on a promise to repeal and replace Obamacare. But the president hit a major roadblock on Friday after members of his own party revolted and pulled his proposed health care legislation. Here’s how it played out: On Thursday, President Trump gave Congress an ultimatum to hold a vote on the floor. But by Friday, Paul Ryan told him he didn’t have the votes to repeal the bill. The Republicans who said ‘No’ to Trump fell into several camps. There was the hardline conservative Freedom Caucus,which wanted a complete repeal of Obamacare. One of its members, Alabama Representative Mo Brooks, had tweeted earlier that he had “never faced a worse bill than the ACHA…..” Moderate Republicans in the so-called Tuesday Group worried that Trump’s measure removed benefits their constituents depend on, like more subsidies for seniors. By day’s end, there was no shortage of fingerpointing. Ryan looked inward. President Trump told the New York Times that it was the Democrats’ fault, not Paul Ryan’s — or even his own. But the New York Times is also reporting that Paul Ryan had to talk Trump off the ledge from naming and shaming the Freedom Caucus for sinking the bill. Whoever’s to blame, Obama’s signature domestic achievement will remain in place for now.President Trump faced stiff opposition from lawmakers in his own party to the measure he had endorsed, and it was withdrawn.CreditCredit...Gabriella Demczuk for The New York TimesBut after years of opposing power — both in the White House, which was occupied by a Democrat, and in the leadership of their own party — the conservatives were offered a chance to negotiate directly with the president and his budget director, a former Freedom Caucus member, over the bill to replace the Affordable Care Act. The members pushed and pushed Mr. Trump to the far right edges of policy, just as they have done for years on other bills. But they still could not get to “yes,” and therefore became part owners of the expansive health law they were trying to undo.“They made the perfect the enemy of the good,” said Representative Roger Marshall, Republican of Kansas. “I don’t know how they can go back home and tell people they voted to keep Obamacare, voted to keep funding Planned Parenthood.”Indeed, members of the Freedom Caucus — which is supported by outside conservative groups — have often claimed the mantle of pure conservatism, but their tactics have been seen by many in their party as uniformly counterproductive.Time after time, they undermined Republican leaders’ efforts to secure wins for the conservative cause by overreaching and demanding the impossible.They have anointed Representative Mark Meadows of North Carolina as their leader and principal spokesman. But they occasionally get help from three senators sympathetic to their cause: Ted Cruz of Texas, Rand Paul of Kentucky and Mike Lee of Utah.At critical times, House conservatives have forced their party to make deals with Representative Nancy Pelosi of California, the Democratic leader — an idea anathema to most Republicans, who would seethe.This time, by negotiating with Mr. Trump on the complex issue of health care, a measure whose complexity he did not seem to fully grasp, they moved an already contentious bill further and further to the right, eliminating too many benefits to keep moderate and other conservative members on board. Even Mr. Trump was said to be taken aback by their attempts to remove things Republicans have long promised to keep, like health insurance benefits for children up to 26 years old.Given that the House and Senate majorities were built on a promise to repeal and replace Mr. Obama’s signature health care law, many lawmakers fear electoral repercussions. “It is painfully ironic that members from safe, conservative congressional districts who can’t ever quite seem to get to ‘yes’ make it harder to enact good, conservative public policy like repealing Obamacare,” said Michael Steel, a Republican strategist and former aide to Mr. Boehner.This seemed lost on many Freedom Caucus members on Friday. “Part of the legislative process is working with people who have different ideas,” said Representative Justin Amash, Republican of Michigan. “This process from the beginning wasn’t designed to do that.”Now, health care has become such a partisan issue that voters seem to have little expectation that their elected officials will do much to solve the problem.“I believe we should have more attention paid to the centrists in both parties,” said Representative Ileana Ros-Lehtinen, Republican of Florida, one of the early moderate defectors of the bill. “Instead of showing all this attention to three or four people who never vote for anything, let’s do an American health plan, not a Republican or Democrat one.”Mr. Ryan and Mr. Trump offered up a cheerful patina on what many in Washington viewed as an unmitigated failure, one brought on by a group that had brought down the speaker, shuttered the government and needlessly delayed previous legislation with no significant accomplishments to call its own.And a new test will come soon as Republicans contemplate an overhaul of the tax code, as the fate of the health care bill throws into doubt whether any major legislation can pass in this climate.To mitigate this issue, Mr. Ryan will be charged with building the sort of outside coalitions that did not exist for the failed health care bill, which was opposed by doctors, nurses, hospitals, disease groups and conservative political action committees.“There are lessons from this debate that will be applied to upcoming issues like tax reform, infrastructure and financial reform,” said Ken Spain, who served as the National Republican Congressional Committee’s spokesman in 2010. “Debates are won and lost in the districts and states, not in the cloakrooms of Congress.”“Winning legislative battles today,” he said, “requires more of an outside-in approach.”