    North Korean leader Kim Jong Un waves during a military parade on April 15 in Pyongyang, North Korea. | AP Photo 
Vice President Mike Pence calls the test — which failed upon launch — a 'provocation.' 
North Korea, in an apparent show of defiance against U.S. President Donald Trump, tried to test a missile early Sunday, but U.S. officials said the attempt failed as the projectile exploded almost immediately upon being launched. It wasn't immediately clear how far the missile could travel or whether it could carry a nuclear warhead. But the test came just as Vice President Mike Pence was headed to South Korea and days after Trump asserted, via a tweet, that, if it must, the U.S. will “properly deal with” North Korea, whose nuclear program his administration is seeking to rein in. North Korea has warned that it is “ready to hit back with nuclear attacks" against U.S. provocations, which, based on some reports, include talk of a pre-emptive strike on its nuclear facilities. A U.S. aircraft carrier group has been steaming toward the region, also putting Pyongyang on edge. The missile launch occurred off the eastern North Korean port city of Sinpo, and “the type of missile is still being assessed,” said Cmdr. Dave Benham, a spokesman for U.S. Pacific Command. The United States “is fully committed to working closely with our allies in the Republic of Korea and in Japan to maintain security."
During a dinner speech in Seoul, South Korea, on Sunday, Pence described the test as a “provocation.”
“This morning's provocation from the North is just the latest reminder of the risks each one of you face each and every day in the defense of the freedom of the people of South Korea and the defense of America in this part of the world,” Pence said. "Your willingness to step forward, to serve, to stand firm without fear, inspires."
Earlier on Sunday, a White House foreign policy adviser told reporters traveling with Pence that the test was likely a medium-range missile and that the move was definitely seen as less provocative than a nuclear test.
"A medium-range missile, unfortunately we've seen many of them,” the official said, according to a pool report. "If it had of been a nuclear test, then other actions would have been taken from the U.S."
The official added that the U.S. had “good intelligence” ahead of the failed test.
"We weren't surprised by it, we were anticipating it. It wasn't a matter of if, it was a matter of when. The good news is that after five seconds it fizzled out,” the official said.
Rumors had been circulating that the North was planning some sort of a show of military strength — possibly even testing a nuclear device — as it celebrated the 105th birth anniversary of its founding leader, Kim Il Sung. The North Korean government, led by Kim’s grandson Kim Jong Un, showed off long-range missiles and other types of military hardware during a massive, propaganda-filled parade on Saturday.
Defense Secretary James Mattis issued a brief statement that, oddly, appeared to speak on Trump's behalf. It said: "The president and his military team are aware of North Korea's most recent unsuccessful missile launch. The president has no further comment." It's unusual for the Defense Department or any Cabinet agency to speak on behalf of the White House. Aides to Pence said the vice president was in contact with the president, who was spending the weekend at his Mar-a-Lago resort in Florida. Pence was headed to Seoul as part of a broader swing in the region and had departed from Anchorage, Alaska, when he was apprised of the situation. The Trump administration has been increasingly worried about North Korea’s nuclear ambitions, which neither diplomacy nor threats and sanctions from the United States have managed to hold back in recent decades. Trump’s predecessor, Barack Obama, warned the incoming president that North Korea could prove his biggest national security challenge. North Korea is especially tricky to deal with because thousands of U.S. troops are stationed in South Korea and Japan. Even if it doesn't use nuclear weapons, North Korea can rapidly launch other attacks on the South Korean capital, where some 10 million people live, if it feels under threat.  The Trump administration has asked China to do more to pressure North Korea, but it’s not yet clear how far Beijing is willing to go. China is by far North Korea’s most important trading partner; the latter country is largely isolated from the rest of the world. But the Chinese insist that they have only limited influence on Kim Jong Un. They also worry that a collapse of the North Korean regime could lead to a massive refugee crisis on their doorstep. Earlier this week, amid concerns that Pyongyang was planning some nuclear-related test, Trump tweeted: “I have great confidence that China will properly deal with North Korea. If they are unable to do so, the U.S., with its allies, will! U.S.A.” His lack of an immediate comment following the failed missile test suggests some in Trump's inner circle are advising him not to further taunt North Korea, at least not in public.  Earlier this month, after the North launched an intermediate range ballistic missile, Secretary of State Rex Tillerson said in a brief statement that baffled much of Washington: "The United States has spoken enough about North Korea. We have no further comment.”  Alexandra Bell, who worked on arms control issues for the Obama administration, said that even though this weekend's missile test may have been a technical failure, "it's important to remember that the North Koreans are learning things with each and every test." "The test is also a clear demonstration that Pyongyang is determined to to advance their delivery capabilities, even in the face of international condemnation," added Bell, now a senior policy director at the Center for Arms Control and Non-proliferation. The location of the missile launch suggests that the weapon was tied to North Korea's submarine program, said Jon Wolfsthal, another former Obama administration official who dealt with arms control and nonproliferation. He urged the Trump administration to settle on a solid strategy for dealing with Pyongyang. "Just because a missile test fails does not mean that we are winning, and had it succeeded it would not be the end of all hope," Wolfsthal said. 