    The economy added 163,000 jobs in July. Job growth in July beat expectations but unemployment ticked upward, the Labor Department reported Friday, handing Mitt Romney and the Obama administration a statistic of choice as they spar over the state of the economy.  The economy added 163,000 jobs in July while unemployment ticked up slightly to 8.3 percent from 8.2 percent, the Labor Department reported on Friday.  The high unemployment numbers present a challenge for President Barack Obama as he tries to sell voters on his stewardship of the economy before the November election. Republicans have hammered the Obama administration over the amount of Americans out of work and pounced on the rising unemployment rate Friday.  “Today’s increase in the unemployment rate is a hammer blow to struggling middle-class families,” Republican presidential hopeful Mitt Romney said in a release. “President Obama doesn’t have a plan and believes that the private sector is ‘doing fine.’ Obviously, that is not the case.”  The jobs figure released on Friday, however, was better than most mainstream estimates, with most analysts’ predictions hovering around 100,000.  On average in 2012, the economy is adding 151,000 jobs per month, according the Labor Department’s Bureau of Labor Statistics. In 2011 that figure was 153,000.  The better-than-expected jobs figure gave the White House some breathing room and allowed the president to argue that the employment picture is improving, even if it is not good enough.  “We knew when I started in this job that this was going to take some time. We haven’t had to come back from an economic crisis this deep or this painful since the 1930s,” Obama said during a news event at the White House before then taking a shot at the economic proposals being offered by Romney and congressional Republicans. “Here’s the thing, we are not going to get there, we’re not going get to where we need to be if we go back to the policies that helped to create this mess in the first place.”  Jared Bernstein, an economist who worked for the Obama administration earlier in the president’s term, cheered the “nice pop on payrolls” but cautioned not to read too much into a single month.  “Keep your powder dry on this one,” he said in a blog post. “There are lots of other economic headwinds out there, not least of which is a GDP growth rate below trend, and that’s usually associated with weaker job growth numbers than we saw from the payroll report.”  Investors reacted positively to the news with the Dow Jones Industrial Average shooting up close to 250 points by the afternoon.  Analysts do not expect the economic outlook to change dramatically before the November elections, and Friday’s report did nothing to change those forecasts.  “The concerns about recession are misplaced,” said Mark Zandi, chief economist of Moody’s Analytics. The current job growth is “enough to keep the economy moving, but it’s not enough to bring down unemployment,” Zandi said. “I think it’s going to continue like this before policymakers address our fiscal issues more thoroughly. Until those things are done, I don’t think the economy gains any traction.”  There is little chance Congress will enact anything of significance before the election, which has put the spotlight on the Federal Reserve. Even the central bank may have run out of tools that can make a significant impact.  Earlier this week, the Fed opted not to take any new steps to stimulate the economy. The central bank’s policy-setting committee meets again in mid-September and will have the numbers released on Friday as well as the August jobs figures to ponder when deciding whether to act at that time.  Republicans and Democrats, meanwhile, have found little common ground over what to do about the 2001 and 2003 tax cuts that are to expire at the end of the year.  Republicans want to extend all the breaks for another year while Democrats have proposed allowing the rates for top earners to go up.  “Any new job creation is welcome news — but with unemployment still above eight percent and rising, and millions of Americans looking for work, it is insane to raise taxes on small businesses, as the president and his allies in the Democratic-controlled Senate propose,” House Speaker John Boehner said in a statement.  The House and Senate closed up shop on Thursday so members could head home for the August recess. House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi (D-Calif.) chided Republican leaders for not keeping members in town to work on settling the dispute over taxes.  “Americans can’t wait,” she said in a statement. “ It’s time for Republicans to work with Democrats and bring more fairness, opportunity, and certainty to the middle class.”  NUMBERS QUIRK  The seeming contradiction of a better-than-expected jobs number being coupled with an increase in the jobless rate stems from a quirk in Labor’s method for calculating unemployment. The jobs figure is based on a survey of employers, while the unemployment rate is largely based on a separate survey of households, said Tara Sinclair, a George Washington University economist.  The household survey in July indicated a net decrease in employment of 195,000 people, thus the uptick in unemployment.  “They use two completely different surveys,” Sinclair said, cautioning that — because of its smaller sample size — the household figure this month carried less statistical significance than the survey of employers.  The numbers released on Friday will drive the news cycle and be analyzed by pundits and politicians as evidence of presidential performance and economic conditions, but that attaches a certainty to the monthly jobs figure that it hasn’t earned.  The 163,000 jobs-created figure is likely to change in the coming months and could be revised significantly because around a quarter of the monthly jobs surveys the Labor Department collects from businesses usually don’t come in until later months.  Over the last year, for instance, final monthly job-growth figures have fluctuated from their initial level by an average of about 30 percent. Preliminary data showed 103,000 jobs were created in September 2011 — but that number was upgraded to 210,000 jobs by December, an increase of more than 100 percent that didn’t get nearly the attention of the original figure.  Those percentage changes have been higher as of late because the growth itself has been so low, said Peter Morici, business professor at the University of Maryland. But its still the preliminary numbers that will get trumpeted as an affirmation or indictment of the president’s policies.  “Over at the White House right now, they’re spinning the hell out of it and basically the Romney people are doing 8.3 instead of 8.2,” he said.  MANUFACTURING JOBS UP  The department reported that 12.8 million people remain officially unemployed, meaning that they’re actively but unsuccessfully seeking a job. Of the unemployed, 40 percent, or 5.2 million, have been out of work for 27 weeks or more .  Unemployment among Latinos fell slightly to 10.3 percent, while unemployment held steady among blacks at 14.1 percent and among whites at 7.4 percent. Adult men are unemployed at a higher rate — 7.7 percent — than adult women, with an unemployment rate of 7.5 percent.  The economy added 25,000 new manufacturing jobs in July, as well as 12,000 new jobs in the health care industry.  The Federal government cut 2,000 jobs in July, while state and local firms shed a combined 7,000 jobs over the month.  Average national hourly earnings increased slightly to $23.52 — continuing a trend that has seen them increase 1.7 percent for the year.  Ed Lazear, chairman of the Council of Economic Advisors under President George W. Bush, said the July report was positive but underwhelming.  “This is better than the last two, but it’s nothing to write home about,” Lazear said on Bloomberg Television. “You’re still talking three years before we even get back to employment levels that we had pre-recession.”  — Alex Byers contributed to this story 
