WASHINGTON — White House Chief of Staff John Kelly on Thursday excoriated Rep. Frederica Wilson for bragging in 2015 about securing the federal aid to build an FBI field office in South Florida.Kelly, who attended the ceremony to name the building after two FBI agents killed in the line of duty, told the White House press corps how disgusted he was that an "empty barrel" like Wilson could hog the spotlight at such a somber occasion.Except, it wasn't true.A video of the ceremony released Friday by the South Florida Sun-Sentinel shows that Wilson never took credit for getting the money, which was appropriated before she came to office. To the contrary, she gives a speech praising the FBI and the dead agents for which the building is named. She does take credit for, at the request of the FBI, rushing through in four weeks the naming of the building for the agents in time for the dedication ceremony: Benjamin P. Grogan and Jerry L. Dove.Kelly attacked Wilson after the Miami-area Democrat called President Trump insensitive for the way he consoled the widow of Army Sgt. La David Johnson in a phone call earlier this week. Wilson was in the car when the president called Myeshia Johnson, whose husband died in an Oct. 4 ambush in Niger with three other soldiers.At a Friday briefing, press secretary Sarah Sanders said the White House stood by Kelly's comments."As Gen. Kelly pointed out, if you're able to make a sacred act like honoring American heroes all about yourself, you're an empty barrel," she said. "If you don't understand that reference, I'll put it a little more simply: As we say in the South, all hat, no cattle."Pressed further about the video not showing Wilson, who often wears a hat, talking about securing money for the building, Sanders said the video did not capture everything."She also had quite a few comments that weren't part of that speech and weren't part of that video that were also witnessed by many people that (speak to) what Gen. Kelly referenced yesterday.When a reporter said Kelly was "wrong," Sanders bit back."If you want to go after Gen. Kelly, that's up to you," she said. "But I think if you want to get into a debate with a four-star Marine general, I think that's something highly inappropriate."Here's what Kelly said Thursday:"I'll end with this: In October — April, rather, of 2015, I was still on active duty, and I went to the dedication of the new FBI field office in Miami. And it was dedicated to two men who were killed in a firefight in Miami against drug traffickers in 1986 — a guy by the name of Grogan and Duke. Grogan almost retired, 53 years old; Duke, I think less than a year on the job. Anyways, they got in a gunfight and they were killed. Three other FBI agents were there, were wounded, and now retired. So we go down — Jim Comey gave an absolutely brilliant memorial speech to those fallen men and to all of the men and women of the FBI who serve our country so well, and law enforcement so well. "There were family members there. Some of the children that were there were three or four years old when their dads were killed on that street in Miami-Dade. Three of the men that survived the fight were there, and gave a rendition of how brave those men were and how they gave their lives. "And a congresswoman stood up, and in the long tradition of empty barrels making the most noise, stood up there and all of that and talked about how she was instrumental in getting the funding for that building, and how she took care of her constituents because she got the money, and she just called up President Obama, and on that phone call he gave the money — the $20 million — to build the building. And she sat down, and we were stunned. Stunned that she had done it. Even for someone that is that empty a barrel, we were stunned."But, you know, none of us went to the press and criticized. None of us stood up and were appalled. We just said, OK, fine."The video shows Wilson recognizing a number of those attending including then-FBI director James Comey, the families of the two fallen soldiers a well as other members of Congress who helped secure the funding.Here's what Wilson said in 2015:"Consider this scenario: the brand new federal building to house the FBI has been built. And the FBI approaches my office and says: Congresswoman Wilson, the ribbon-cutting has been scheduled in four short weeks. The dedication is on the government calendar and cannot change. The FBI wants to name this gorgeous edifice at the same time in four weeks."Everyone said that's impossible. It takes at least eight months to a year to complete the process, (pass it) out of the Senate and to the president's office. I said I'm a school principal and I said — excuse my french — 'Aw, hell no! we're going to get this done.'"Immediately I went into attack mode. I said to the Speaker (John) Boehner. And I said Mr. Speaker, we need your help. The FBI needs your help. The country needs your help. And we have no time to waste. He went into attack mode and in two days forwarded it out of committee, brought it to the floor for a vote. Representative (Carlos) Curbelo and I presented it and we all voted for it. And I dashed it over to the Senate and put our senators on notice. Put it on your radar. Sen. (Bill) Nelson and Sen. (Marco) Rubio ... hotlined it to the Senate floor in two days. And guess what: the president (Obama) signed the bill into law this past Tuesday, April 7, 2015 with a bang, bang, bang!"