Credit...Al Drago for The New York TimesOct. 31, 2017House Republicans are (still) just one day away from unveiling their long-awaited tax plan and many key details still remain in flux.Lawmakers have paved the way for a $1.5 trillion tax cut, but the provisions under discussion would far exceed that cost. Republicans are still struggling with how to make the math work, including how to treat the wealthiest Americans, whether to get rid of some of the most valuable tax deductions and whether to make the income tax cuts temporary.Here are some of the biggest issues and the current state of play.Partly repealing the state and local tax deductionEliminating the deduction that taxpayers take for state and local tax expenses has emerged as one of the most contentious issues in the tax debate. Doing away with the deduction would save $1.3 trillion over a decade, according to the Tax Policy Center, and could be necessary to give any big tax plan a semblance of fiscal responsibility.Many Republicans are happy to do away with the deduction because it tends to benefit wealthy people in Democratic states that have high local taxes. But several Republican lawmakers also represent areas where constituents, including those in the upper-middle class, make heavy use of the deduction.Party leaders are trying to soften the blow, and Representative Kevin Brady, Republican of Texas, said in a statement the bill would allow taxpayers to deduct property taxes, but not state and local income taxes. That may not be enough to win over Republicans in states with high taxes, including those in the Senate, who are crucial to the bill’s passage.Lowering the cap on 401(k) contributionsLawmakers are still considering changes to the amount of pretax income that workers can set aside in their 401(k) retirement accounts. Currently, workers under 50 can save up to $18,000 a year without having to pay taxes up front. House Republicans are discussing changing the rules so workers are encouraged to put more money into retirement accounts that are taxed upfront, like Roth I.R.A.s, rather than on the back end.This creates both practical and political problems. Lowering the cap on 401(k) contributions would save only a sliver of the $1.5 trillion in lost revenue from the tax cuts that Republicans are pushing. What is more, such plans are widely used by middle-class taxpayers that Republicans say they are trying to help.Raising income taxes on the richThe tax framework released by the so-called big six Republican tax working group last month — the six lead negotiators from the House, Senate and Trump administration — called for three tax brackets with a top rate of 35 percent, down from 39.6 percent today. The plan kept open the option of creating an additional tax bracket for top earners to ensure the tax code remained progressive. No guidance was given on what that tax rate would be or what income level it would affect.Lawmakers have agreed to a higher rate for the wealthiest Americans, though the exact rate and the income levels it will affect, are still under discussion.Republican leaders in Congress have been hesitant to raise tax rates on anyone because the party’s brand is largely built around the idea that the economy does best when people have more money to spend. Yet they may have no choice: Senator Susan Collins, Republican of Maine, said this week that she opposed lowering the top tax rate for individuals earning more than $1 million, creating pressure for Republicans to include a higher bracket in order to win passage.Making some cuts temporary or gradualRepublican lawmakers are selling their plan as a middle-class tax cut, and the bill is expected to create three income tax brackets — 12 percent, 25 percent and 35 percent — and call for doubling the standard deduction. Yet lawmakers are considering making these changes temporary, so they would expire after 10 years.The conventional wisdom is that a future Congress will vote to continue the cuts and not allow them to expire. But that’s a tricky assumption given their cost, which will only exacerbate a federal deficit already on an upward trajectory. The Treasury Department said the deficit for the fiscal year 2017 grew by $80 billion, to $666 billion. Federal debt, which has already topped $20 trillion, is expected to grow by an additional $10 trillion over the next decade, according to the Congressional Budget Office.Compounding the math problem is that the plan would probably make the corporate tax cuts permanent. Lawmakers argue that a permanent cut, to 20 percent from today’s 35 percent rate, is needed to trigger the economic growth they anticipate, and they say it will ultimately put more money into workers’ pockets.Still, those corporate tax cuts are expected to cost $2 trillion over the next decade and, to help make the budget work, lawmakers are discussing phasing in the corporate tax cut over several years to get to the 20 percent rate. The White House on Monday seemed to suggest that was a nonstarter.Limiting the estate taxThe original framework called for repealing the estate tax, which would reduce federal revenues by $239 billion over a decade.Estates are taxed at a rate of 40 percent, but the first $5.49 million of an inheritance is exempt from taxation. Couples can leave their heirs as much as $11 million, none of it taxed, meaning only a few thousand wealthy estates are subject to the tax each year.President Trump has talked about the estate tax as a punishment for farmers and small businesses, but his Treasury Secretary, Steven Mnuchin, has acknowledged that getting rid of it would “disproportionately” help rich people.That has turned into a key talking point for Democrats, who are already working to kill the bill in the hopes that they can find a way to a bipartisan tax plan.Republican Paul D. Ryan of Wisconsin said on Tuesday that lawmakers would phase in a full repeal of the estate tax over several years, an accounting maneuver aimed at helping the budget math work for the tax plan.