Since today is Bill of Rights Day, it seems like an appropriate time to pause and consider the actual condition of the safeguards set forth in our fundamental legal charter. This is necessary because too many Americans mistakenly think our Constitution magically restrains the government and keeps it in line. Today is a good day to set aside whatever your political affiliation may be and reflect on how both political parties have been treating the constitutional safeguards they are supposed to be defending.Let’s consider each amendment in turn.The First Amendment says that Congress “shall make no law … abridging the freedom of speech.” Government officials, however, insist that they can raid our homes and then prevent us from even talking about such abuse. They also insist upon gag orders in thousands of federal investigations and prosecute people who peacefully distribute pamphlets. President Trump says his press coverage is so negative that he is thinking about revoking broadcasting licenses and changing the libel laws so the government can sue news organizations.The Second Amendment says the people have the right “to keep and bear arms.” Government officials, however, insist that they can make it a crime to keep and bear arms.The Third Amendment says soldiers may not be quartered in our homes without the consent of the owners. This safeguard is admittedly doing well—so well that we can pause here for a quick laugh.The Fourth Amendment says the people have the right to be secure in their persons, houses, papers, and effects, against unreasonable searches and seizures. Government officials, however, insist that they stop and frisk anyone they deem to be suspicious and engage in massive surveillance of citizen communications.The Fifth Amendment says that private property shall not be taken “for a public use without just compensation.” Government officials, however, insist that they can take away our property and give it to others who covet it. The Sixth Amendment says that in criminal prosecutions, the person accused shall enjoy a speedy trial, a public trial, and an impartial jury trial. Government officials, however, insist that they can punish people who want to have a trial. That is why 95% of the criminal cases never go to trial. The Seventh Amendment says that jury trials are guaranteed even in petty civil cases where the controversy exceeds “twenty dollars.” Government officials, however, insist that they can impose draconian fines on people and business firms without jury trials. The Eighth Amendment prohibits cruel and unusual punishments. Government officials, however, insist that putting shackles on female prisoners during childbirth is not cruel.The Ninth Amendment says that the enumeration in the Constitution of certain rights should not be construed to deny or disparage others “retained by the people.” Government officials, however, insist that they will decide for themselves what rights, if any, will be retained by the people. They go so far as to say that people with life-threatening illnesses do not have the right to try certain pills without their approval!The Tenth Amendment says that the powers not delegated to the federal government are to be reserved to the states, or to the people. Government officials, however, insist that they will decide for themselves what powers are reserved to the states, or to the people.It’s a depressing snapshot, to be sure, but I submit that the Framers of the Constitution would not have been surprised by the relentless attempts by government to expand its sphere of control. The Framers themselves would often refer to written constitutions as mere “parchment barriers” or what we would describe as “paper tigers.” They nevertheless concluded that putting safeguards down on paper was better than having nothing at all. And lest we forget, that’s what millions of people around the world have—nothing at all. Another important point to remember is that while we ought to be alarmed by the various ways in which the government is attempting to go under, over, and around our Bill of Rights, the battle will never be “won.” That’s what the American revolutionaries meant when they said that the price of liberty is eternal vigilance. If we don’t guard our rights, we will lose our rights. Let’s resolve to do a better job next year and beyond.