WASHINGTON — Mitt Romney has used words like "phony," "fraud" and "con man" to describe Donald Trump. But don't expect the one-time presidential nominee to use that same level of invective against the current president during his Senate campaign in Utah — or on Capitol Hill if he wins in November.Political analysts and Romney allies say they anticipate the 2012 GOP presidential nominee is planning a Utah-focused campaign that will have little to do with Trump.“Those who don’t like Trump and expect Romney to be the anti-Trump will be sadly disappointed, and those who are going to want President Trump to annihilate Mitt Romney will also be disappointed," said Boyd Matheson, who was chief of staff to Utah Sen. Mike Lee, R-Utah, and is now an opinion editor at the Deseret News.“It’s not going to become this cage-match that a lot of people are hoping it will be,” he said. “I’m not expecting a Kumbaya moment either.”Romney announced his Senate bid on Friday, and he enters the race as the clear favorite to succeed retiring GOP Sen. Orrin Hatch. A Mormon and former governor of Massachusetts, Romney is generally credited with turning around the scandal-plagued winter Olympic games in Salt Lake City in 2002.In the 2012 presidential race, Romney won the Utah presidential contest with 73% of the vote against President Obama. Trump, by contrast, won 45 percent of the Utah vote in his 2016 campaign against Democrat Hillary Clinton."Utah voters rejected many of the things that Trump was very outspoken about, and they rejected sort of the tone and tenor of his candidacy," said Katie Packer Beeson, a GOP consultant who served as Romney deputy campaign manager in 2012 and led an anti-Trump super PAC in 2016. Beeson said Romney will provide a natural contrast to Trump's leadership style in his Senate campaign. But, she said, he won't use his campaign platform to poke the president or turn his bid into a national anti-Trump crusade. "Mitt is not somebody that seeks conflict," she said. "And I don’t think he’s going to be going out of his way to look for ways he can challenge the president."Still, Romney's decision to run for Senate is happy news for Beeson and other Republicans who are uncomfortable with Trump and worry about the direction he is taking the Republican Party. "By running for the U.S. Senate, he's inspiring many of us to not give up and fight for the Republican Party values that we share," said Al Cardenas, former head of the American Conservative Union who was an influential Romney adviser in his 2008 and 2012 presidential campaigns."The mainstream of the party has had some choices: They can either join President Trump and hold their nose, thinking that ceding power to the Democrats is worse ... or there's hope for the future and Mitt Romney represents that," Cardenas said.Last year, Romney won plaudits from many Republicans — and Democrats — when he slammed Trump for his remarks after the white nationalist rally in Charlottesville last summer, which left one woman dead after clashes between neo-Nazis and counter-protesters. Among other things, Trump said there was blame "on both sides," causing many to condemn the president's response to the violence.Romney said the president's statement "caused racists to rejoice, minorities to weep, and the vast heart of America to mourn."In his announcement Friday, Romney did not mention Trump by name. But he took a veiled shot at Trump's anti-immigrant policies. "Utah welcomes legal immigrants from across the world," Romney said in a video statement. "Washington sends immigrants a message of exclusion." Despite Romney's previous criticisms of Trump, Cardenas said Romney "has adapted to the fact" that Trump is president. He pointed to the discussions Romney and Trump had about the Secretary of State position — Trump was reportedly considering Romney as a candidate for that job — and the private dinner they shared in New York after Trump won the election.Cardenas said he would expect more of the same if he wins the Senate seat."I believe his goal is to be a unifying, not a dividing force," Cardenas said of Romney. "I'm talking about content, tone, civility, problem solving — the things that can make our party more effective."Others said they expect Romney to embrace many of the traditional GOP policies that Trump has pushed in office, including the GOP tax bill and the rollback of federal regulations. Beeson said there are very few Republicans in Congress willing to challenge Trump right now. "They’re mostly cowards that don’t want to risk alienation from their primary base," she said.If Romney wins, she said, he will have more freedom to speak his mind than other Republicans because of he's so popular in Utah and will not face re-election right away. "He will naturally be seen as a leader by people in the Senate because he was the nominee of the party," Beeson said. But if voters or party insiders are looking for Romney to become the next Jeff Flake — the Arizona Republican who regularly criticizes Trump — "they should stop," she said."That's not why he’s running," Beeson said. "And I don't think that will be his role in the Senate."Read more:Mitt Romney is officially running for U.S. SenateMitt Romney won't be the savior the 'Never Trump' crowd wantsA look at Mitt Romney