Credit...John Moore/Getty ImagesFeb. 12, 2018WASHINGTON — With the fate of hundreds of thousands of young, undocumented immigrants in the balance, the Senate on Monday began an open-ended debate on immigration — an exceedingly rare step that, in effect, will allow senators to attempt to build a bill from scratch on the Senate floor.The highly unusual debate, expected to unfold throughout the week, will test whether a series of legislative concepts and proposals championed by President Trump and a variety of Republicans and Democrats can garner 60 votes, the threshold for a measure to pass the Senate. No one has any idea how it will turn out.“Whoever gets to 60 wins,” Senator Mitch McConnell, the Republican leader, told reporters last week. “And it will be an opportunity for 1,000 flowers to bloom.”The debate kicked off Monday evening with a procedural vote on an unrelated House-passed measure that will serve as a shell for building an immigration bill. By a vote of 97 to 1, with only Senator Ted Cruz, Republican of Texas, dissenting, senators took the first step toward consideration of the underlying measure, as expected.The push on immigration comes against the backdrop of a ticking clock, and months of congressional inaction.About 700,000 young immigrants who were brought to the United States illegally as children are shielded from deportation under an Obama-era initiative known as the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals, or DACA. Another 1.1 million young immigrants are eligible for DACA but did not apply. But Mr. Trump suspended the initiative in September and gave lawmakers until March 5 to come up with a replacement that would protect the young immigrants, known as Dreamers, after proposed legislation called the Development, Relief and Education for Alien Minors, or DREAM Act.Liberal interest groups and immigration rights activists have mobilized to insist on legal status for the Dreamers without the concessions demanded by the president and immigration hard-liners: billions for a wall on the Mexican border, an even more aggressive crackdown on illegal immigrants and dramatic changes to the legal immigration system that would favor skilled immigrants over the family members of citizens and green-card holders.“As the Senate is poised to start debate on the humanitarian crisis Donald Trump caused when he cruelly ended DACA, here’s what every sitting Senator should remember: Americans want the Dream Act — not cruel deals that go against basic American values,” said Corinne Ball, campaign director for MoveOn.org, a liberal activist group.Conservatives and anti-immigration groups are just as vociferous.“It was President Obama who created a cruel situation by making promises to a group of illegal aliens who he had no authority to promise what he gave them,” said Rosemary Jenks, the director of government relations for NumbersUSA, a group that advocates limiting immigration. “President Trump had a duty to rescind that policy, because the Constitution makes very clear that Congress, not the White House, sets the laws in this land.”In such a polarized environment, there is a significant chance that the Senate will pass nothing by the end of the week — or that whatever measure the Senate does adopt will be thwarted by the House.“We’re going to have something in the Senate that we haven’t had in a while,” Senator Jeff Flake, Republican of Arizona, said Sunday on the NBC program “Meet the Press.” “It’s a real debate on an issue where we really don’t know what the outcome is going to be.”VideotranscripttranscriptWhat ‘Dreamers’ Gained From DACAAbout 800,000 young unauthorized immigrants are protected under the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program. We spoke with a few of them in September, when President Trump announced his intention to end the Obama-era program.“The politicians are using us like a sport, you know, they’re using us like punching bags.” “Democrats and Republicans alike have to stand up for us because there are DACA beneficiaries in every state.” “I was brought when I was 11“ “ ... when I was 7, from Brazil.” “I was about 10.” “I was 12 years old.” “I was 7 years old.” “ ... about 8 years old.” “We crossed the border, but we were little.” “So I’ve been here 18 years.” “I’m 29 years old.” “I am 20.” “I am 19 years old.” “I’ve been here for 21 years.” “I am 27 years old now.” “I am 23 years old and I am originally from Mexico.” “When DACA was announced, I remember exactly where I was in 2012. I was at the Museum of American History.” “Before DACA I always felt like I was in between two worlds. I was born in Honduras. But if I were to go back to Honduras, it’s like I’m foreign to them.” “It’s a tug of war. When you’re undocumented, you’re always just aware of the situations, of the locations, who you were talking to, how you are interacting with folks, ensuring that you don’t do anything that will bring attention to you because you live a life of shadows.” “You know, I have been able to accomplish a lot more than when I was undocumented. To get a social security number, loans from the bank, a better job.” “Every time my parents call me after 11 p.m., it’s like my heart is racing. When you are an immigrant in this country, you wake up every day with the fear that you could be taken away, right, that your family could be broken up.” “I have been preparing my kids of, for, you know, These are the risk[s]. This could happen to your dad and to me.” “I just can’t imagine, you know, my nieces and nephews being separated from their parents or them going back to a country that they don’t know because this is their home. They shouldn’t live with that fear that I had to grow up with. That’s not a normal life. That’s not normal. And I know that like my friends that are U.S. citizens don’t go through that. And nobody should go through that.” “I’m not leaving my home, and I think if Trump ever wanted to talk to us, if he wanted to talk to these Dreamers he would realize that we love this country. We want to stay here, and ... ” “ ... if it’s taken away, I’m losing my job, I’m losing the opportunity to work and school. People don’t understand but it’s a big thing, it’s a huge thing, it’s privileges that some people here take for granted.” “Taking DACA away is like taking a family member away from me. That wall that Donald Trump wants to build, you know, it’s putting a wall in front of me where I won’t be able to move forward. You are not just taking something away from us, but you’re taking something away from this country.” “This land is not a white America. It’s not. This is a land of immigrants.” “I mean, I was already a person before DACA. A lot of people say, ‘Oh, you know, what’s going to happen after DACA?’ I’m not going down without a fight.” “You know, whatever happens next, I love this country and I belong here.” “I’m fighting for my family, “I’m fighting for the friends of mine that can’t even stand up because they’re scared.” “We just want to stay here and contribute to this country, to the economy ... We are good people. We’re not criminals.”About 800,000 young unauthorized immigrants are protected under the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program. We spoke with a few of them in September, when President Trump announced his intention to end the Obama-era program.Immigration is one of the most emotional, contentious issues in Washington. The last time Congress seriously considered immigration legislation was in 2013, when the Senate passed a comprehensive immigration overhaul with 68 votes. But that measure, which offered a path to citizenship for about 11 million immigrants in the United States illegally — including the Dreamers — was never taken up by the House.Mr. Trump’s election, on a wave of anti-immigrant fervor, has made the current negotiations even more difficult, senators say. The negotiations are complicated by Republicans’ demands to pair any protection for DACA recipients with an increase in border security, and limits on legal immigration, and by conflicting pronouncements from Mr. Trump.After telling lawmakers last month that he would sign whatever they sent him, Mr. Trump now insists that any proposal address what the White House is calling “four pillars”: protection for DACA recipients; an end to what Mr. Trump calls “chain migration,” in which legal immigrants can sponsor their family members; an end to the diversity visa lottery, which is aimed at bringing in immigrants from underrepresented countries; and full funding for the proposed border wall, estimated to cost $25 billion over 10 years.The White House recently put forth its own proposal that meets those conditions; it would offer 1.8 million Dreamers a path to citizenship, in exchange for strict limits on legal immigration and the full $25 billion for the border wall. A number of Republican senators, led by Charles E. Grassley of Iowa, have drafted legislation that mirrors the White House plan, which will almost certainly be introduced as an amendment. Mr. McConnell said on Monday that he supported it.The American people have “heard many of my colleagues across the aisle insist this issue requires swift action,” Mr. McConnell said. “Now is the time to back up the talk with the hard work of finding a workable solution. That means finding an agreement that can pass the Senate, pass the House and which the president will sign — not just making a point.”Several other proposals are floating around Capitol Hill, but so far none has garnered the backing of the White House. A bipartisan group calling itself the Common Sense Coalition, led by Senators Susan Collins, Republican of Maine, and Joe Manchin, Democrat of West Virginia, has been working on its own measure but has not released a plan.That group is focused on a narrower bill than the president would like, one that would pair a path to citizenship for the Dreamers with funding for the border wall.“The only way to achieve a solution to the DACA crisis is to keep it simple,” Senator Bill Nelson, Democrat of Florida and a member of the coalition, said on the Senate floor Monday.But Senator John Cornyn of Texas, the No. 2 Republican, said he could not support a bill that addresses only DACA and border security. “The president’s indicated he would not sign such a bill, so that really doesn’t meet my definition of success,” he said.At the same time, the idea of an open-ended debate is so novel that many newer senators say they have never experienced one, and are scurrying to learn the rules.“For a lot of us, we’re going to have to learn this process,” said Senator Mike Rounds, Republican of South Dakota, who was elected in 2014.Senator Chris Coons, Democrat of Delaware, marveled, “Been here seven years — I’ve never seen anything like it.”Immigrant rights groups are nervous, and do not know quite what to expect. Frank Sharry, the executive director of America’s Voice, an immigrant rights group, put it this way: “This is going to be an uncertain, wild week.”