VideotranscripttranscriptShadowy Foreign Agent? Hardly. Inside Maria Butina’s Prolific Social Media Feed.Maria Butina was sentenced to 18 months in prison after pleading guilty to conspiring to act as a foreign agent, admitting that she was part of a Russian effort to influence U.S. politics. But she was hardly a shadowy figure. Here’s what her online profile revealed.These social media posts belong to an accused Russian agent. She’s Maria Butina. The U.S. charged her with conspiring to act as a foreign agent. She pleaded guilty, and agreed to cooperate with investigators as part of her plea deal. Butina admitted to opening up unofficial lines of communication with influential Americans, and warming them up to the idea of Russia as a friend. But she’s no shadowy foreign agent. She was all over social media: at least 11,000 tweets, 100 YouTube videos, 4,700 Facebook friends, LinkedIn, a blog, etc. Let’s take a closer look into these accounts to find out who she is and how she might have been trying to wield influence. This is Butina during a photo shoot for GQ Russia in 2014. She was a well-known gun rights advocate in Russia. And her early social feeds followed her activism. By 2015, she started posting from the United States. These are from a National Rifle Association meeting in Nashville. They were posted on one of her Russian social media pages. U.S. court records show that infiltrating the N.R.A. was one way Russia tried to influence Republican politics. And Butina fit right in. Here she is networking with top N.R.A. officials. Then there is the Republican Party. There’s a few ways she gets inside: at a teenage Republican summer camp in South Dakota; here she is with Wisconsin Gov. Scott Walker; in 2015, she asked a question of then candidate Donald Trump. “I am visiting from Russia.” “Ah, Putin. Good friend of Obama, Putin. He likes Obama a lot. Go ahead.” “My question will be about foreign politics.” At a prayer breakfast in 2017, she posed with her alleged handler, an influential Russian official now under U.S. sanction. And right here, is where President Trump spoke that same morning. All the while, Butina maintained the image of an active twentysomething. She studied international relations at American University. She exercised and took flying lessons. But now her social feeds are quiet. She’s been sentenced to 18 months in prison. And then, deportation.Maria Butina was sentenced to 18 months in prison after pleading guilty to conspiring to act as a foreign agent, admitting that she was part of a Russian effort to influence U.S. politics. But she was hardly a shadowy figure. Here’s what her online profile revealed.CreditCredit...Associated PressJuly 17, 2018WASHINGTON — To her friends, Maria Butina was somebody who had nothing to hide.A 29-year-old recent graduate of American University in Washington, Ms. Butina was upfront about her three great passions: gun rights, President Trump and better relations between the United States and Russia. She posted photographs of her meetings with American politicians, including Gov. Scott Walker of Wisconsin, a Republican, all over social media. She joked about buying a friend high in the Russian government his favorite American toothpaste.But it was all a ruse, federal prosecutors say, a cover for Ms. Butina to advance Russia’s agenda within the Republican Party. For three years, they said, she was part of a low-cost, low-risk influence operation that was run by the senior Russian official, Alexander Torshin, and was assisted by an unnamed American operative with Republican ties. She is also said to have gotten help from the National Rifle Association, which repeatedly brought Ms. Butina from her native Russia to the United States for events until she obtained a student visa in August 2016.Ms. Butina, who was indicted Tuesday on charges of conspiracy and acting as a foreign agent, did not register with the Justice Department as a foreign agent. That failure is central to the government’s charges that she violated the federal lobbying law and conspired with Mr. Torshin, the deputy head of Russia’s central bank, to influence American politics on behalf of the Russian government.In private messages sent via Twitter, Mr. Torshin urged Ms. Butina to play the long game, be coldblooded, and “not burn out prematurely.”“Only incognito!” Ms. Butina wrote him in agreement one month before the 2016 presidential election. “Right now everything has to be quiet and careful.”Ms. Butina’s lawyer, Robert N. Driscoll, described the charges as overblown. During a court hearing on Monday, he argued that Ms. Butina had voluntarily testified before Congress and remained in the country after 15 F.B.I. agents searched her house in April. Rather than allow her to cooperate, he said, prosecutors pursued an intrinsically weak case.Prosecutors allege that the conspiracy began in early 2015, after Ms. Butina, whose name was also spelled Mariia in court papers, had gained minor attention in Russia as a redhead from Siberia fighting for gun rights. She had moved to Moscow from southern Russia’s mountainous Altai region at 21, hoping to develop a furniture business.She later opened an advertising agency, then got involved in a movement to legalize private gun ownership, a cause that Mr. Torshin, then the deputy head of the Russian Parliament, also embraced. In 2011, he hired her as a special assistant.Mr. Torshin knew N.R.A. officials: He met David Keene, the organization’s president from 2011 to 2013, through an American lawyer who did business in Russia. He also appears to have connected at one point with John R. Bolton, now Mr. Trump’s national security adviser, who appeared by video at a 2013 round table on gun rights organized by Ms. Butina.Mr. Torshin also was familiar with Mr. Trump, telling Bloomberg last year that he had known Mr. Trump for five years and had enjoyed a jovial exchange at an N.R.A. convention in 2015 in Nashville. Both Mr. Torshin and Ms. Butina are life members of the organization.Despite being limited to short-term visas for her trips to the United States, Ms. Butina traveled widely, often going with Mr. Torshin to events sponsored by the N.R.A. They went to the organization’s annual convention in Indianapolis in 2014 and to the one the next year in Nashville, where Ms. Butina met Mr. Walker, the Wisconsin governor who would soon declare his candidacy for president.She traveled to South Dakota to deliver a talk at a university. The Rapid City Journal, a newspaper in Rapid City, S.D., described Ms. Butina as an engaging speaker who “described Putin as a dictator and a tyrant.”And in July 2015, she appeared at a question-and-answer session featuring Mr. Trump at the Freedom Fest in Las Vegas, asking him to describe his foreign policy and his views on “damaging” economic sanctions against Russia. “I know Putin and I’ll tell you what, we get along with Putin,” Mr. Trump said. “I don’t think you’d need the sanctions.”The next month, she was back in Russia during a visit by a congressional delegation led by Representative Dana Rohrabacher, Republican of California, who is known for his pro-Russia views. A spokesman for Mr. Rohrabacher said Tuesday that the congressman recalls only that Ms. Butina arranged a breakfast meeting with Mr. Torshin that “was of no consequence.”All the while, prosecutors charge, Ms. Butina was coordinating her actions with an American political operative whom she met in Moscow. Unnamed in the indictment, he is believed to be Paul Erickson, an N.R.A. member, longtime Republican fixer and influence peddler who formed a South Dakota company with Ms. Butina in 2016. Mr. Erickson later said the company was formed to help Ms. Butina get financial assistance for her academic studies. His lawyer did not return repeated phone calls this week seeking comment on her indictment.A second American was also said to have been involved; his identity remains a mystery. According to an F.B.I. affidavit, Ms. Butina assured that person that the Kremlin had approved her efforts. “All that we needed was ‘yes’ from Putin’s side,” she wrote in an email in March 2016. Later she wrote to him: “My dearest president has received ‘the message’ about your group initiatives.”Prosecutors allege that Ms. Butina lied on her application for her August 2016 student visa, stating that she had quit working for Mr. Torshin that May even though she was still his assistant. While pursuing a graduate degree in international relations at American University, where her lawyer says she maintained a perfect grade point average, Ms. Butina is said to have stayed in close touch with Mr. Torshin. “I am just starting out in this field,” she wrote at one point. “I still have to learn and learn from you.” He praised her efforts, writing, “Your political star has risen in the sky.”Meanwhile, prosecutors allege, Mr. Torshin kept in contact with officials at Russia’s Ministry of Foreign Affairs. He rejected Ms. Butina’s proposal to organize what would be billed as a “private” conference between Russian and American politicians, saying “they” would not go for it, according to the F.B.I. affidavit.A month before the 2016 presidential election, prosecutors stated, the two discussed whether Ms. Butina should volunteer to serve as an election observer, but they decided it was too risky. “I am ready for further orders,” she wrote Mr. Torshin after Mr. Trump’s victory.In February 2017, she organized a delegation of a dozen Russian officials and academics to the National Prayer Breakfast in Washington to hear Mr. Trump speak. It was the second year in a row that she and Mr. Torshin attended that event.But other attempts to get close to Mr. Trump appear to have failed. A proposal to meet with Mr. Trump at the N.R.A. annual convention in 2016 in Louisville was rejected by the campaign. And a visit by Mr. Torshin to the White House in 2017 was canceled after a national security aide noted Mr. Torshin was under investigation by Spanish authorities over allegations of money laundering.