President Trump’s former adviser testified that the pressure campaign on Ukraine was a “domestic political errand” that diverged from U.S. foreign policy.Nov. 21, 2019VideotranscripttranscriptTrump Impeachment Hearings: Day 5 HighlightsFiona Hill, the former top Russia expert on the National Security Council, and David Holmes, an aide at the United States Embassy in Kyiv, testified before the House Intelligence Committee.“Beginning in March 2019, the situation at the embassy and in Ukraine changed dramatically. Specifically, the three priorities of security, economy and justice, and our support for Ukrainian democratic resistance to Russian aggression, became overshadowed by a political agenda promoted by former New York City Mayor Rudy Giuliani and a cadre of officials operating with a direct channel to the White House.” “Based on questions and statements I’ve heard, some of you on this committee appear to believe that Russia and its security services did not conduct a campaign against our country — and that perhaps, somehow, for some reason, Ukraine did. This is a fictional narrative that has been perpetrated and propagated by the Russian security services themselves. The unfortunate truth is that Russia was the foreign power that systematically attacked our democratic institutions in 2016. And I refuse to be part of an effort to legitimize an alternate narrative that the Ukrainian government is a U.S. adversary and that Ukraine, not Russia, attacked us in 2016.” “Although the hold on the security assistance may have been lifted, there are still things they wanted that they weren’t getting, including a meeting with the president in the Oval Office. So — and I think that continues to this day, I think they’re being very careful. They still need us.” “Obviously what Mr. Giuliani was saying was pretty explosive in any case. He was frequently on television making quite incendiary remarks about everyone involved in this, and that he was clearly pushing forward issues and ideas that would, you know, probably come back to haunt us. And, in fact, I think that that’s where we are today.” “We asked Ambassador Sondland about that at his deposition. He indicated you were upset and you were upset with Ambassador Bolton and upset with the way things were going —” “Very unfortunately, I had a bit of a blowup with Ambassador Sondland, and I had a couple of testy encounters with him. He was being involved in a domestic political errand — and we were being involved in national security foreign policy. And those two things had just diverged. But I was irritated with him and angry with him that he wasn’t fully coordinating. And I did say to him, ‘Ambassador Sondland, Gordon, I think this is all going to blow up.’ And here we are.” “You may be aware of some of the attacks on Colonel Vindman suggesting that he has a dual loyalty — that he’s not really loyal to America, he’s loyal to Ukraine. I want to ask you as a fellow immigrant what you think of those kind of accusations when they’re leveled against Colonel Vindman or other Americans?” “This is my country, and the country that I serve. And I know for a fact that every single one of my colleagues, and there were many naturalized citizens in my office and across the National Security Council, felt exactly the same way. I think it’s deeply unfair. And so when I came in, Gordon Sondland was basically saying, well, look, we have a deal here that there will be a meeting, I have a deal here with Chief of Staff Mulvaney, there will be a meeting if the Ukrainians open up or announce these investigations into 2016 and Burisma — and I cut it off immediately there. Because by this point, having heard Mr. Giuliani over and over again on the television, and all of the issues that he was asserting, by this point it was clear that Burisma was code for the Bidens, because Giuliani was laying it out there. I could see why Colonel Vindman was alarmed and he said, this is inappropriate, we’re the National Security Council, we can’t be involved in this.” “Did your boss — Doctor, I mean, Ambassador Bolton, tell you that Giuliani was, quote, ‘a hand grenade’?” “He did, yes.” “What do you think he meant by his characterization of Giuliani as a hand grenade?” “What he meant by this was pretty clear to me in the context of all of the statements that Mr. Giuliani was making publicly — that the investigations that he was promoting, that the storyline he was promoting, the narrative he was promoting, was going to backfire.” “And it’s time for this phase of the publicly announced and proclaimed Democrat coup to end. Thank you for your service. Thanks for being here. And I yield back.” “Could I actually say something? Because we’ve had three —” “Doctor, I was going to — I was going to ask you if you’d like to respond. There have been —” “I yielded back!” “I — gentleman will suspend — Dr. Hill, you may respond.” I think all of us who came here under a legal obligation also felt we had a moral obligation to do so. We came as fact witnesses. We need to be together again in 2020, so the American people can make a choice about the future and about — to make their votes in a presidential election without any fear.”Fiona Hill, the former top Russia expert on the National Security Council, and David Holmes, an aide at the United States Embassy in Kyiv, testified before the House Intelligence Committee.CreditCredit...Erin Schaff/The New York TimesHere’s what you need to know:Hill testified that Ukraine pressure campaign was a ‘domestic political errand.’ In rebuke to Trump, Hill denounced ‘fictional’ claim that Ukraine meddled in 2016 election, benefitting Russia.Witnesses: ‘Clear impression’ that Trump withheld aid for investigations; Burisma was ‘code’ for Biden. Hill described what Bolton called a ‘drug deal’ on Ukraine: ‘Investigations for a meeting.’ An embassy official testified about a memorable phone call that Democrats say links Trump to investigations.Republicans lectured Dr. Hill instead of questioning her and criticized Holmes for offering ‘extraneous’ testimony.President Trump lashed out on Twitter, casting doubt on Holmes’s call.Hill testified that Ukraine pressure campaign was a ‘domestic political errand.’ ImageCredit...Doug Mills/The New York TimesFiona Hill, the former top Russia expert on the National Security Council, said President Trump’s demands for Ukraine to announce investigations into former Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. and the 2016 elections amounted to a “domestic political errand” that diverged from American foreign policy goals. Her testimony made it clear that Dr. Hill, a longtime Russia expert, saw the pressure campaign on Ukraine as a purely political effort that had nothing to do with confronting corruption in Ukraine, the explanation that Mr. Trump and Republicans have frequently given for his actions.Under questioning from the top Republican counsel on the House Intelligence Committee, Dr. Hill said she confronted Gordon D. Sondland, the ambassador to the European Union about his failure to coordinate with other members of the administration and later realized he was “being involved in a domestic political errand, and we were being involved in national security, foreign policy.” Dr. Hill said she had told Mr. Sondland at the time that, “this is all going to blow up. And here we are.”In rebuke to Trump, Hill denounced ‘fictional’ claim that Ukraine meddled in 2016 election, benefitting Russia.VideotranscripttranscriptFiona Hill Calls Claim of Ukraine Interference a ‘Fictional Narrative’Fiona Hill, the former top Russia expert on the National Security Council, told the House Intelligence Committee that Russia, not Ukraine, “systematically attacked our democratic institutions in 2016.”Based on questions and statements I’ve heard, some of you on this committee appear to believe that Russia and its security services did not conduct a campaign against our country — and that perhaps, somehow for some reason, Ukraine did. This is a fictional narrative that has been perpetrated and propagated by the Russian security services themselves. The unfortunate truth is that Russia was the foreign power that systematically attacked our democratic institutions in 2016. This is the public conclusion of our intelligence agencies confirmed in bipartisan congressional reports. It is beyond dispute, even if some of the underlying details must remain classified. The impact of the successful 2016 Russian campaign remains evident today. Our nation is being torn apart. Truth is questioned. Our highly professional and expert career Foreign Service is being undermined. U.S. support for Ukraine, which continues to face armed Russian aggression, has been politicized. The Russian government’s goal is to weaken our country, to diminish America’s global role and to neutralize a perceived U.S. threat to Russian interests. President Putin and the Russian security services aim to counter U.S. foreign policy objectives in Europe, including in Ukraine, where Moscow wishes to reassert political and economic dominance. I say this not as an alarmist, but as a realist. I do not think long-term conflict with Russia is either desirable or inevitable. I continue to believe that we need to seek ways of stabilizing our relationship with Moscow even as we counter their efforts to harm us. Right now, Russia’s security services and their proxies have geared up to repeat their interference in the 2020 election. We are running out of time to stop them. In the course of this investigation, I would ask that you please not promote politically driven falsehoods that so clearly advance Russian interests.Fiona Hill, the former top Russia expert on the National Security Council, told the House Intelligence Committee that Russia, not Ukraine, “systematically attacked our democratic institutions in 2016.”CreditCredit...Erin Schaff/The New York TimesDr. Hill criticized Republicans on Thursday for propagating a “fictional narrative” embraced by President Trump that Ukraine, not Russia, meddled in the 2016 elections. In an implicit rebuke to the president she once served, she argued that the story was planted by Russia and dangerously played into Moscow’s hands, by sowing political divisions in the United States that adversaries are eager to exploit. “These fictions are harmful even if they are deployed for purely domestic political purposes,” said Dr. Hill, the co-author of a 500-page book analyzing the psyche of President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia.“President Putin and the Russian security services operate like a super PAC,” Dr. Hill explained. “They deploy millions of dollars to weaponize our own political opposition research and false narratives. When we are consumed by partisan rancor, we cannot combat these external forces as they seek to divide us against each another, degrade our institutions, and destroy the faith of the American people in our democracy.The impeachment inquiry centers on the accusation that Mr. Trump withheld a White House visit for Ukraine’s president and security aid for the country as leverage to push the government to announce investigations into Mr. Biden, and the claim that Ukraine conspired to help Democrats in the 2016 election.Dr. Hill called the claim about Ukraine’s interference a fake story invented by Russian intelligence services to destabilize the United States. Witnesses: ‘Clear impression’ that Trump withheld aid for investigations; Burisma was ‘code’ for Biden. ImageCredit...Erin Schaff/The New York TimesDavid Holmes, a top aide in the United States Embassy in Kyiv, told lawmakers on Thursday that he became convinced by the end of August that Mr. Trump had frozen security aid for Ukraine because he was seeking to pressure the country to commit to an investigation into Mr. Biden.“By this point,” Mr. Holmes said, “my clear impression was that the security assistance hold was likely intended by the president either as an expression of dissatisfaction with the Ukrainians who had not yet agreed to the Burisma/Biden investigation or as an effort to increase the pressure on them to do so.”Burisma is a Ukrainian energy company that employed Hunter Biden, the former vice president’s son, on its board.Both Mr. Holmes and Dr. Hill said it was clear that mentions of Burisma by Mr. Trump, Rudolph W. Giuliani, his personal lawyer, or others were clearly references to the investigations that the president wanted Ukraine to announce.Kurt D. Volker, the former special envoy to Ukraine, and Mr. Sondland both testified that they believed Burisma was merely a reference to the need to eliminate corruption in Ukraine, given the history of corruption at the company.But both witnesses on Thursday said unequivocally that Burisma was “code” for the Bidens, and that anyone working on Ukraine issues would know that. Asked whether “anyone involved in Ukraine matters in the spring and summer would understand that as well,” Mr. Holmes had a one-word answer.“Yes,” he said.Hill described what Bolton called a ‘drug deal’ on Ukraine: ‘Investigations for a meeting.’ ImageCredit...Erin Schaff/The New York TimesDr. Hill described an awkward White House meeting with Ukrainian officials on July 10 that ended abruptly after Mr. Sondland discussed pressing Ukraine to investigate Democrats in exchange for a White House meeting for the country’s new president. Dr. Hill testified that after the meeting ended, Mr. Sondland explained precisely what he was up to: “That he had an agreement with chief of staff Mulvaney that in return for investigations this meeting would get scheduled.”When she told John R. Bolton, then the national security adviser, about that exchange, Dr. Hill testified, he instructed her to tell the National Security Council’s top lawyer about what Mr. Sondland, Mr. Giuliani and Mr. Mulvaney were up to, and say that, “I am not part of whatever drug deal Sondland and Mulvaney are cooking up.”“I took it to mean investigations for a meeting,” Dr. Hill added, when asked what Mr. Bolton meant by “drug deal.”Later, Dr. Hill said that Mr. Bolton told her that “Giuliani’s a hand grenade who’s going to blow everybody up.” She understood that to refer to Mr. Giuliani’s “incendiary remarks” on television about Ukraine, and that he was “pushing views that would come back to haunt us.”“In fact,” she added, “I think that’s where we are today.” An embassy official testified about a memorable phone call that Democrats say links Trump to investigations.ImageCredit...Erin Schaff/The New York TimesMr. Holmes provided the first public testimony about a now-infamous July cellphone call between Mr. Trump and Mr. Sondland, a conversation that Democrats believe establishes that the president was preoccupied with persuading Ukraine to publicly commit to investigations that benefited him politically.He told lawmakers that he could hear Mr. Trump, who was speaking loudly, asking Mr. Sondland whether Mr. Zelensky was “going to do the investigation.” Mr. Sondland told Mr. Trump that Mr. Zelensky “loves your ass,” and would conduct the investigation and do “anything you ask him to,” Mr. Holmes said.In Mr. Holmes’s account, Mr. Sondland later told him that Mr. Trump cared only about “big stuff that benefits the president” like the “Biden investigation.” Mr. Sondland did not dispute that account when he testified on Wednesday, but said he did not recall specifically mentioning Mr. Biden.Republicans lectured Dr. Hill instead of questioning her and criticized Holmes for offering ‘extraneous’ testimony.Videotranscripttranscript‘Could I Actually Say Something’: Hill Responds After Republicans Avoid QuestionsFiona Hill, President Trump’s former top adviser on Russia, interrupted the impeachment inquiry proceedings after three Republican lawmakers avoided asking her questions.“The disagreement wasn’t about Russian meddling. The disagreement was about whether or not President Trump conspired with Russia — a false allegation peddled by the Democrats.” “You guys want to be the laughingstock of history, to impeach a president of the United States because he didn’t take a meeting? Oh please, dear God.” “It’s time for this phase of the publicly announced and proclaimed Democrat coup to end. Thank you for your service. Thanks for being here. And I yield back.” “Could I actually say something? Because we’ve had three —” “Doctor, I was going to — I was going to ask you if you’d like to respond. There have been —” “I yielded back!” “I — gentleman will suspend. Dr. Hill, you may respond.” “I think that what Dr. Wenstrup [Republican of Ohio] said was very powerful, about the importance of overcoming hatred and certainly partisan division. And it’s unfortunate that Congressmen Turner and Ratcliffe have both left as well, because I think all of us who came here under a legal obligation also felt we had a moral obligation to do so. We came as fact witnesses. When I was referring to questions that I’d heard, it was in the context of the deposition that I gave on Oct. 14, because I was very worried about the turn in which some of the questions were taking. And I understand that the point is being read about individuals, as you have just said, Dr. Wenstrup, and that these articles lay out taking different positions in our elections. I don’t believe there should be any interference of any kind in our election. I think it was unfair for people to already call the election and to make attacks also on candidate Trump and on President Trump. And I know that this has put a huge cloud over this presidency and also over our whole democratic system. That’s actually why as a nonpartisan person and as an expert on Russia and an expert on Vladimir Putin and on the Russian security services, I wanted to come in to serve the country to try to see if I could help. I heard President Trump say that he wanted to improve the relations with Russia. I believe we have to. We can’t be in this unending confrontation with Russia. We have to find a way to stabilize that relationship and to professionalize that relationship, as well as to stop them from doing what they did in 2016 again in 2020. This is really the crux of the issue that I and others are trying to put across, and I think that you’ve put across very eloquently. The other matters related to this inquiry, we’re here just to provide what we know and what we’ve heard. I understand that for many members this may be hearsay. I’ve talked about things I heard with my own ears. I understand that Ambassador Sondland has said a lot of things. I have told you what he told me and what others told me. A lot of other people have said things to me, again, as well, and also to Mr. Holmes. And we’re here to relate to you what we heard, what we saw and what we did — and to be of some help to all of you in really making a very momentous decision here. We are not the people who make that decision. And I do again want to underscore what you said here, Dr. Wenstrup. It was very eloquent and very moving about your service and trying to bring us all together again, as Americans. We need to be together again in 2020, so the American people can make a choice about the future and about — to make their votes in a presidential election without any fear that this is being interfered in by any, from any quarter whatsoever. So I just want to thank you for making what I think was also a very elegant and eloquent and heartfelt defense.”Fiona Hill, President Trump’s former top adviser on Russia, interrupted the impeachment inquiry proceedings after three Republican lawmakers avoided asking her questions.CreditCredit...Anna Moneymaker/The New York TimesRepresentative Mike Turner of Ohio laced into Dr. Hill, using his time during Thursday’s hearing to lecture her, rather than question her and taking issue with her assertion that some Republicans denied that Russians interfered in the 2016 elections.In her opening statement, Dr. Hill had said that “based on questions and statements I have heard, some of you on this committee appear to believe that Russia and its security services did not conduct a campaign against our country.”Mr. Turner took issue with that statement, calling it a “little small” on her part. “Dr. Hill, you have provided me probably the greatest piece of evidence that’s before us to illustrate the problem with hearsay,” Mr. Turner said, pointing her to a Republican report that acknowledged Russian meddling in the election. “Dr. Hill, no matter how much we believe we know that what we’ve heard is true, it is still just what we’ve heard.”Mr. Turner also criticized Mr. Holmes for testifying that Mr. Sondland told the president that Mr. Zelensky “loves your ass” during a telephone call in Kyiv. Mr. Turner said that Mr. Holmes should not have used that phrase in his testimony about the call.“It was anecdotal, it was extraneous,” Mr. Turner said. “Your interests in protecting Ukraine are very dubious when you embarrass President Zelensky by making those statements you didn’t have to make. Who cares that Ambassador Sondland said that?”Mr. Turner did not ask a question for either Dr. Hill or Mr. Holmes to answer, nor did two others Republicans who used their five minutes to issue critical statements. A few minutes later, under questioning from a Democratic lawmaker, Dr. Hill got the chance to respond to the speechifying. She described herself as a nonpartisan Russia expert who was appearing before the committee without an agenda.“We are here to relate to you what we heard, what we saw and what we did and to be of some help to all of you in really making a very momentous decision here,” Dr. Hill said. “We are not the people who make that decision.”ImageCredit...Erin Schaff/The New York TimesPresident Trump lashed out on Twitter, casting doubt on Holmes’s call.Mr. Trump followed the day’s testimony, repeatedly retweeting Republican members of the committee who complained about the impeachment process and insisting that the president had done nothing wrong.Earlier in the day, Mr. Trump took aim at Mr. Holmes’s credibility even as he began testifying, suggesting there was no way he could have heard what he claimed to have picked up the cellphone conversation between Mr. Trump and Mr. Sondland. The call is an important piece of evidence because it demonstrates that Mr. Trump was directing members of his administration to push the Ukrainians for the investigations, but the president on Thursday sought to cast doubt on its authenticity.Even before the day’s hearing began, the president posted a string of angry tweets about Democrats and the impeachment investigation. The Democrats leading the impeachment investigation are “human scum,” he said. The public hearings over the last week are “the most unfair hearings in American History.” And, “never in my wildest dreams” did he think his name would be linked to the “ugly word, Impeachment!” Mr. Trump also revived his complaints about the special counsel investigation into whether his campaign or aides were involved in Russia’s election interference.