          President Trump speaks at the Veteran's of Foreign Wars national convention Tuesday, in Kansas City, Mo. (Charlie Riedel / AP)     President Trump said Tuesday that he’s “very concerned” Russia will try to meddle in November's midterm elections — in order to help Democrats win.  Trump tweeted he's “very concerned that Russia will be fighting very hard to have an impact on the upcoming Election.”  Without citing any evidence, he added that “they will be pushing very hard for the Democrats. They definitely don’t want Trump!”   Just last week, Russian President Vladimir Putin said point blank that he rooted for Trump to defeat Democrat Hillary Clinton in 2016.  After the two world leaders met in Helsinki, Finland, Trump faced intense criticism for casting doubt on the U.S. intelligence community’s unanimous agreement that the Kremlin attempted to influence the presidential race in his favor.   Days earlier, 12 Russian intelligence officers were indicted by special counsel Robert Mueller in connection with the hacking of the Democratic National Committee and the Clinton campaign “with the intent to interfere” in the 2016 election.  Trump has repeatedly said he would like to see warmer relations with Russia and has shrugged off his own intelligence officials’ assessment that Putin led efforts to sow chaos ahead of the 2016 contest.  In Helsinki, the President blasted Mueller’s probe, which he has labeled a “witch hunt ad nauseum, and said Putin offered a “strong and powerful” denial.    President Trump has repeatedly cast doubt on the integrity of America's electoral system. (Todd Maisel, New York Daily News / New York Daily News)   Trump’s claim that Moscow is suddenly pulling for the opposition party came hours after a leading election forecaster gave Democrats a greater than 50% chance to reclaim the House of Representatives in November.   With 100 days to go before voters head to the polls, an analysis by Sabato’s Crystal Ball, a service of the University of Virginia's Center for Politics, shows the House tilting past 50-50 odds in favor of the Dems. The party needs to flip 23 seats in order to regain the majority.  Trump, while casting doubt on Russia’s influence has conversely expressed unfounded doubts about the integrity of the U.S. electoral system.  During the campaign, he repeatedly claimed the election was “rigged.” After winning the White House, he created a commission to study voter fraud.  The group, following months of controversy and legal challenges, was disbanded before it issued a final report.   Europe  Russia  Elections  Donald Trump  Democratic Party  Robert S. Mueller III  Hillary Clinton  Vladimir Putin       