President Donald Trump used Twitter to tear into social media companies Saturday morning, claiming they were “totally discriminating against Republican/Conservative voices.”But he does have a solution. Sort of. And it involves both sides.Trump tweeted that “too many voices are being destroyed, some good and some bad, and that cannot be allowed to happen.” So, he added: “Let everybody participate, good & bad, and we will all just have to figure it out!”Check out his tweets here:Social Media is totally discriminating against Republican/Conservative voices. Speaking loudly and clearly for the Trump Administration, we won’t let that happen. They are closing down the opinions of many people on the RIGHT, while at the same time doing nothing to others.......— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) August 18, 2018
.....Censorship is a very dangerous thing & absolutely impossible to police. If you are weeding out Fake News, there is nothing so Fake as CNN & MSNBC, & yet I do not ask that their sick behavior be removed. I get used to it and watch with a grain of salt, or don’t watch at all..— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) August 18, 2018
....Too many voices are being destroyed, some good & some bad, and that cannot be allowed to happen. Who is making the choices, because I can already tell you that too many mistakes are being made. Let everybody participate, good & bad, and we will all just have to figure it out!— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) August 18, 2018
Trump accused social media giants of “closing down the opinions of many people on the RIGHT, while at the same time doing nothing to others.”“Censorship is a very dangerous thing & impossible to police,” he added, before embarking on a now familiar rant about “fake news” CNN and MSNBC — which he admitted to sometimes watching, but “just with a grain of salt.”Trump did not reference any person in particular in his tirade against the tech companies, although a host of them have in recent weeks banned conspiracy theorist Alex Jones and his website Infowars from their platforms.