WASHINGTON – When Sen. John McCain left the nation's capital in December to celebrate Christmas and battle brain cancer in Arizona, friends and colleagues vowed he would return.For three tribute-filled days, their hopes will be realized – posthumously. McCain's casket landed at Joint Base Andrews in Maryland Thursday night. It will be a hero's welcome for the former Navy pilot who spent 5½ years imprisoned in Vietnam and a public servant who spent 36 years in a political career that took him from the House to the Senate and nearly to the White House – twice. The swashbuckling style that led to McCain's label as a maverick will give way to more decorous forms of affection, first inside the U.S. Capitol, then at Washington National Cathedral, and finally overlooking the Severn River at his beloved U.S. Naval Academy in Annapolis, Maryland. The 81-year-old's belief in the need for bipartisanship will be on display at the ceremonies and services, including a full-dress memorial during which the two presidents who vanquished him – Republican George W. Bush and Democrat Barack Obama – will speak.But even as he settles those old scores, one will remain: President Donald Trump, who had called McCain a "dummy" rather than a hero, was not invited. Vice President Mike Pence will speak at one event, and three members of Trump's administration will attend another.The events will be an occasion to recall the many highlights, and perhaps even the low moments, of a career that both enriched and enraged McCain's colleagues.On the high side, there was his successful, bipartisan effort to regulate the financing of political campaigns. His winning the Republican nomination for president in 2008 after being written off. His chairmanship of the Senate Armed Services Committee.On the low side, there was his early entanglement in the "Keating Five," a group of senators scandalized after intervening on behalf of a failing savings and loan. His frustrated efforts to solve the nation's immigration crisis. His choice of Alaska Gov. Sarah Palin as his 2008 running mate and ultimate defeat in November. Presidents as 'friends'The pomp and circumstance in the nation's capital in essence started Thursday when McCain's body departed Arizona from Goldwater Air National Guard Base, named for former Sen. Barry Goldwater, who McCain replaced in 1987. Earlier in the day, he was eulogized at a Baptist church by former Vice President Joe Biden, whose son Beau died in 2015 from the same vicious disease.From the Joint Base Andrews military facility in Maryland, McCain will be taken to the U.S. Capitol, where he began his public service career in 1983. There he will lie in State on Friday, becoming only the 31st person to be so honored in 166 years – a list that includes Abraham Lincoln, John F. Kennedy, Ronald Reagan and unknown soldiers from the two world wars, Korea and Vietnam.Following an 11 a.m. EDT ceremony at which Pence, Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell and House Speaker Paul Ryan will speak, the public will be invited to pass by McCain's casket from about 1 to 8 p.m. – and later if necessary.On Saturday, a motorcade will take the late senator along Constitution Avenue to the Vietnam Veterans Memorial, where his widow, Cindy McCain, will lay a ceremonial wreath honoring those who lost their lives in the war that cost McCain his freedom. Then it will continue to Washington National Cathedral, where funeral services have been held for 15 presidents dating to William McKinley in 1901, and where former president Woodrow Wilson is buried. Others eulogized there include Eleanor Roosevelt, Neil Armstrong, Nelson Mandela and victims of the 9/11 attack.In addition to Bush and Obama, speakers at Saturday's service include former secretary of State Henry Kissinger, former Sen. Joe Lieberman and television commentator Meghan McCain, the late senator's daughter. The presidents and others are identified on McCain's website first as "friend."Finally on Sunday, McCain will be moved not to Arlington National Cemetery – where his father and grandfather, both four-star Navy admirals, are buried – but to a spot overlooking the Severn River at the U.S. Naval Academy, beside his old Navy buddy, Charles "Chuck" Larson.Services there will be private and will include tributes from Sen. Lindsey Graham, R-S.C., McCain's closest friend in the Senate; former CIA director David Petraeus; and McCain's son Jack, a Navy helicopter pilot.'Not even close'McCain's last days in Washington included a stay at Walter Reed National Military Medical Center in nearby Bethesda, Maryland, to treat an infection stemming from treatment for glioblastoma, the most deadly form of brain cancer. By January, however, his return was rumored."We need his voice now more than ever," Graham mused. Happily for his allies and to the chagrin of his opponents, McCain didn't stop speaking out during his illness, even imparting a farewell statement delivered after his death Saturday afternoon. "We weaken our greatness when we confuse our nationalism with tribal rivalries that have sown resentment and hatred and violence in all the corners of the globe," he said. "We weaken it when we hide behind walls, rather than tear them down, when we doubt the power of our ideals, rather than trust them to be the great force for change they have always been."Now it will be left to his wife and seven children, along with his Senate colleagues and friends, to keep John Sidney McCain III's voice alive. They did so this week by urging well-wishers to send flowers to their local veterans hospital. By Wednesday, the Phoenix hospital had received four deliveries."His impact on America hasn’t ended. Not even close," Biden said Saturday. "It will go on for many years to come."In Arizona:'We can be proud he was our senator': John McCain remembered at Arizona ceremonyReporter's recollections:What I learned about John McCain during 20 years covering himRaising hell:McCain wanted to 'raise hell' and leave it all on the field. Mission accomplished, Senator.