Credit...Erin Schaff for The New York TimesSept. 2, 2018WASHINGTON — Most Supreme Court appointments are in a way inconsequential. A conservative replaces a conservative, a liberal replaces a liberal, and the court’s basic direction is unchanged.That is not the case with the nomination of Judge Brett M. Kavanaugh, whose Senate confirmation hearings will begin on Tuesday. Judge Kavanaugh is considerably more conservative than the justice he would replace, Anthony M. Kennedy.But there is a more subtle, and important, reason that President Trump’s pick of Judge Kavanaugh could remake the court. His confirmation would result in a rare replacement of the court’s swing justice, moving Chief Justice John G. Roberts Jr. — a much more reliably conservative vote than Justice Kennedy — to the court’s ideological center.It has been more than 80 years since a chief justice was the swing vote. If Chief Justice Roberts assumes that position, legal scholars said, he will lead a solid five-member conservative majority that would most likely restrict access to abortion, limit the use of race-conscious decisions in areas like college admissions, uphold voting restrictions, expand gun rights, strike down campaign finance regulations and give religion a greater role in public life.“John Roberts would be the least swinging swing justice in the post-World War II era,” said Justin Driver, a law professor at the University of Chicago.That would be a major break from the role that Justice Kennedy, a moderate conservative who was appointed by President Ronald Reagan, played for years on the court. Justice Kennedy at times voted with the court’s four-member liberal wing on issues like abortion, affirmative action, gay rights and the death penalty.Justice Kennedy and Chief Justice Roberts were on the opposite sides of 51 closely divided decisions in which Justice Kennedy joined the court’s liberals, according to data collected by Lee Epstein and Andrew D. Martin of Washington University in St. Louis and Kevin Quinn of the University of Michigan. All of those precedents are at risk, Professor Epstein said.Only one of the previous five Supreme Court confirmation hearings concerned a nominee who would go on to change the ideological balance on the court. That was a dozen years ago, and it led directly to the Citizens United decision on campaign finance.In that change on the court, Justice Samuel A. Alito Jr. replaced the more moderate Justice Sandra Day O’Connor. That made Justice Kennedy the sole justice at the court’s ideological center.VideotranscripttranscriptHow Supreme Court Confirmations Became Partisan SpectaclesConfirmation hearings for Supreme Court nominees didn’t always exist. But the 19th Amendment, school desegregation and television all contributed to major changes in the process.“Please raise your right hand.” These are the Supreme Court confirmation hearings — “This is day two.” — you’re probably all familiar with. “Bigly.” “You just said ‘bigly.’” “Bigly.” Big partisan productions — “A charade and a mockery.” “Anything else you want to say, Judge Bork?” — that dominate the headlines and the airwaves. This is how they used to be. [crickets] Yeah, there actually weren’t any. So how did we get from here — [crickets] — to here? We’ll start in 1937 with former Senator Hugo Black, who’s being congratulated. That’s because he’s just been confirmed as a Supreme Court Justice. He’s also been outed as a former member of the Ku Klux Klan. So to explain himself, he gets on the radio. “I did join the Klan. I later resigned. I never rejoined.” People are not happy. They’re basically asking: How could the Senate Judiciary Committee let this guy through? Answer: Since the first hearing back in 1873, for this guy, there were no standard ways of holding hearings for Supreme Court nominees. They didn’t have to go and testify, and the hearings didn’t need to be made public. The senators reviewed the nominees among themselves. But then came a couple of amendments to the Constitution. The upshot is they gave more voting power to the people. So the senators needed to start paying more attention to public opinion. And they’re paying attention when Black’s controversial confirmation drives Americans to ask: Why are these hearings private? It’s a big reason why the next nominee to come along gets a public hearing. And it’s not just a public hearing, it’s the first that includes no-holds-barred questioning by the committee. Things are beginning to change. Then World War II comes, and goes. America is suddenly a superpower. Business booms, suburbs grow. “The protest took the form of a boycott.” And we see the beginning of the modern civil-rights era. In 1954, the court rules to end racial segregation in schools. And this marks a point where we really start to see the court using its power to shape parts of American society. That means Americans take a greater interest in who is on the court. That means even more pressure on senators to vet these candidates. Starting with the first nominee after the Brown decision, almost every nominee will have a public hearing. Now change is in full swing. “I Have a Dream,” the march from Selma, “The Feminine Mystique.” The court keeps making controversial rulings on race discrimination, gender discrimination, personal privacy. That means more public interest, more pressure on senators, more issues to parse in the hearings. So the hearings get longer. But just wait. 1981 — game changer. “Good evening. Sandra O’Connor —” First woman nominated to the Supreme Court, first nomination hearing to be televised. The longer senators talk, the more TV time they get. The more TV time they get, the more they can posture for voters watching at home. [senators talking] So the more they talk. With the cameras rolling, we’ll see 10 out of the 12 longest hearings ever. One of those is for Robert Bork — “With a negative recommendation of 9 to 5.” — who famously doesn’t make the cut. Now onto the aughts. There’s an 11-year gap between nominees. Meanwhile, America has become more politically divided, so has the Senate. “Over and over again —” “Wait just a second —” “How many times do we do this before —” Here’s Chief Justice Roberts to explain what happened next. “I mean, you look at two of my colleagues, Justice Scalia and Justice Ginsburg, for example. Maybe there were two or three dissenting votes between the two of them.” Yep, three votes against Ginsburg in 1993. No votes against Scalia in 1986. “Now you look at my more recent colleagues and the votes were, I think, strictly on party lines.” That’s pretty much right. “And that doesn’t make any sense.” And that’s how we got here. “I’m not looking to take us back to quill pens.” Very long — “Nah, I just asked you where you were at on Christmas.” [laughter] Always very political — “So your failure to answer questions is confounding me.” — very public Supreme Court confirmation hearings. Also, something else to notice: Sometimes these nominees give pretty similar answers. “The right to privacy is protected under the Constitution in various ways.” “And it protects the right to privacy in a number of ways.” “In various places in the Constitution.” “In a variety of places in the Constitution.” “It’s protected by the Fourth Amendment.” “The Fourth Amendment certainly speaks to the right of privacy.” “It’s founded in the Fourth Amendment.” “The first and most obvious place is the Fourth Amendment.”Confirmation hearings for Supreme Court nominees didn’t always exist. But the 19th Amendment, school desegregation and television all contributed to major changes in the process.CreditCredit...Erin Schaff for The New York TimesJustice Alito joined Justice Kennedy’s majority opinion in 2010 in the court’s 5-to-4 decision in Citizens United, which overruled part of a 2003 opinion by Justice O’Connor. Justice Alito also joined Justice Kennedy’s majority opinion in 2007 in another 5-to-4 decision, that one sustaining the federal Partial-Birth Abortion Ban Act. Seven years earlier, the court had struck down a very similar Nebraska law, with Justice O’Connor in the majority.But the differences between Justice O’Connor and Justice Kennedy pale in comparison to the ones between Justice Kennedy and Chief Justice Roberts. They were on opposite sides in blockbusters cases on climate change, the rights of people detained at Guantánamo Bay, Cuba, whether the death penalty is available for child rape, prison overcrowding, life without parole for juvenile offenders and gay rights.“Justice Kennedy’s departure is likely to lead to far more dramatic change in the court than the departure of Justice O’Connor did,” said Irv Gornstein, executive director of the Supreme Court Institute at Georgetown University.Political science data on the justices’ voting patterns confirm that analysis. “The shift in the court’s center from Kennedy to Roberts is likely to be far more important than the 2006 shift from O’Connor to Kennedy,” Professor Epstein said. “O’Connor and Kennedy were much closer, ideologically speaking, than Roberts and Kennedy.”By contrast, the other appointments since 2005 did not alter the court’s basic direction. Chief Justice Roberts’s replacement of Chief Justice William H. Rehnquist and Justice Neil M. Gorsuch’s replacement of Justice Antonin Scalia substituted conservatives for conservatives. Justice Sonia Sotomayor’s replacement of Justice David H. Souter and Justice Elena Kagan’s replacement of Justice John Paul Stevens substituted liberals for liberals.While Chief Justice Roberts, 63, would represent a sharp change as the swing justice, that does not mean that the court will make a sudden leap to the right. Chief Justice Roberts is generally inclined to move in incremental steps, and he cares about the Supreme Court’s legitimacy and prestige. “It is a jolt to the legal system when you overrule a precedent,” he said at his confirmation hearings in 2005.That did not stop him from joining a decision in June that overruled a 40-year-old precedent in a decision that dealt a sharp blow to public labor unions. In general, though, a court with the chief justice at its center would most likely move steadily to the right in measured steps.“I would be somewhat surprised if any of the cases relating to affirmative action, abortion, same-sex marriage or the death penalty are flat out overruled,” Professor Gornstein said. “But it would not surprise me in the slightest if the court never upholds another affirmative action plan, never finds another restriction on abortion to impose an undue burden, never extends the rights of gays and lesbians beyond where they are now, and never again expands the category of persons who may not receive the death penalty.”Republicans are confident that they can quickly confirm Judge Kavanaugh. Erwin Chemerinsky, the dean of the law school at the University of California, Berkeley, said there was a good way to determine where the Supreme Court would head if that happens.“The key is,” he said, “the many areas where Kennedy was with the liberals in 5-4 decisions: abortion, affirmative action, gay and lesbian rights, criminal punishments and allowing proof of discrimination based on disparate impact. In all of these areas of law, Kavanaugh replacing Kennedy likely will mean a significant change.”ImageCredit...T.J. Kirkpatrick for The New York TimesIn 2016, in Whole Woman’s Health v. Hellerstedt, Justice Kennedy joined the court’s four liberals to strike down parts of a Texas law that would have drastically reduced the number of abortion clinics in the state, leaving them only in the largest metropolitan areas.That same year, he wrote the majority opinion in Fisher v. University of Texas, upholding a race-conscious admissions program at the state’s flagship university.Both decisions would almost certainly have come out differently had Justice Gorsuch, Mr. Trump’s first appointee, and Judge Kavanaugh been on the court.“The court’s jurisprudence on affirmative action and abortion have been administered last rites many times,” Professor Driver said. “But if Kavanaugh is confirmed, it is virtually assured that they will be extinguished sooner rather than later.”While Judge Kavanaugh may face few obvious obstacles to his confirmation, his Senate hearings will still be bruising for other reasons. There is lingering bitterness among liberals over the Republican blockade of Judge Merrick B. Garland, President Barack Obama’s Supreme Court nominee. Democrats argue that they have not seen the documents they need to assess Judge Kavanaugh’s record, a clamor that grew over the weekend as the White House said it was withholding 100,000 pages, citing executive privilege. And some Democrats question the legitimacy of a Supreme Court appointment by a president under investigation over his campaign’s ties to Russia and what critics call obstruction of justice.Judge Kavanaugh is 53. If he joins the Supreme Court, he will most likely serve for decades. His views may shift. Other Republican appointees, including Justices Stevens and Souter, drifted left over time. Even Chief Justice Roberts, in a rare deviation from his conservative track record, voted with the court’s liberals in two cases saving aspects of Mr. Obama’s health care law.But recent appointees have almost never disappointed their supporters, and Judge Kavanaugh is not likely to be an exception.“A dominant narrative of the Supreme Court during the last five decades has been the apostasy of Republican-appointed justices,” Professor Driver said. “Kavanaugh’s confirmation would almost certainly spell the end of that story line, and cement a generation of G.O.P. constitutional orthodoxy.”Thirteen years ago, Chief Justice Roberts’s performance at his confirmation hearings was so smooth and winning that Senator Richard J. Durbin, Democrat of Illinois, said he had “retired the trophy” for an outstanding performance by a judicial nominee.Chief Justice Roberts has since joked about the “odd historical quirk” that gives chief justices only one vote. If Judge Kavanaugh is confirmed, Chief Justice Roberts will still have just one vote. But it will be the crucial one.