     "I think the AP got it a little wrong, but it could be my fault and I didn't describe it right," said Rudy Giuliani, President Donald Trump's lawyer. | Susan Walsh/AP Photo President Donald Trump's lawyer Rudy Giuliani says a deal is near for Trump to provide written answers to questions from special counsel Robert Mueller, but Giuliani disputed a report that Trump has entirely ruled out a sit-down interview with the prosecutor probing the Trump campaign's ties to Russia.
"I think we're pretty close to an agreement, maybe this weekend," Giuliani told POLITICO Thursday night about the prospects of a deal for written responses to questions on alleged collusion between the campaign and Russia before Trump took office. However, the former New York City mayor said the two sides remain at odds over questioning on issues of obstruction of justice and on whether Trump should be questioned in person by Mueller's team on any issue.
Earlier Thursday, The Associated Press reported that Giuliani said a decision had been reached that Trump would not voluntarily submit to an interview on alleged efforts to thwart the Russia probe.
"That's a no-go. That is not going to happen," Giuliani told the AP. "There will be no questions at all on obstruction."But Giuliani told POLITICO there has been no final decision on that issue.
"We're very opposed to that [but] we're not closing it off 100 percent," Giuliani said. "We don't want to mislead [prosecutors] and have them think it's easy, but we have also not closed our mind to it."
A spokesman for Mueller's office declined to comment.
Asked about the AP report, Giuliani said: "It's a little complicated. I think the AP got it a little wrong, but it could be my fault and I didn't describe it right."
Another attorney for Trump stressed Thursday night that the discussions with Mueller's office are still in progress and made no mention of any final decision.
"I don't discuss our ongoing negotiations with the special counsel's office," lawyer Jay Sekulow said. 