I recently drove around the congressional district in which I grew up, Virginia’s 7th District, which encompasses the suburbs of Richmond. It’s the home of Dave Brat, the Tea Party-backed professor who stunned the political world by upsetting Eric Cantor in a 2014 primary that everyone assumed was a safe bet for the sitting House majority leader. Today, Brat is being challenged by Abigail Spanberger, a former C.I.A. operative and mother running in a district teeming with college-educated, suburban women who Democrats are counting on this year. The district hasn’t elected a Democrat since 1963, but every Republican and Democratic professional in Richmond knows that anti-Trump energy has put the race in striking distance for Spanberger. National Republicans are now playing defense, with Paul Ryan’s super PAC coming in to attack her on television and Brat playing hide-and-seek when it comes to scheduling a debate. Even two years ago, that state of play in that district would have been unthinkable.The precinct where I was raised is mostly white and upper middle-class. Millennial parents move there for the good schools, pretty tree-lined streets, and nice mall (ahem, “Fashion Park”) that includes both a Brooks Brothers and a humming P.F. Chang’s. People in Richmond refer to the area, the West End, like people in Los Angeles talk about Orange County, or people in Cincinnati talk about Indian Hill. It’s basically a wealthy, white suburb that’s been reliably Republican since the 60s. Over the years, it’s trended purple, handing more of its votes to centrist Democrats like Mark Warner and Tim Kaine. But never in my life have I witnessed what I saw driving around that pocket of Henrico County a few weeks ago: yard signs at every third or fourth house for Spanberger, a Democrat running for Congress in a district that should be as starched-shirt Republican as it gets.And that’s where I checked myself, because this kind of journalism-by-anecdote—the genre where Tom Friedman talks to an Uber driver with purple hair and renders some kind of sweeping cultural thesis—is supposed to be kind of unfashionable. Especially when it comes to political journalism. Since President Barack Obama’s data-driven re-election in 2012, there’s been a rush among political experts to embrace science over art, math over texture. Snark merchants on Twitter who rarely leave their desks sometimes enjoy mocking the old David Broder style of reporting, in which a big-foot journalist travels to a bellwether state, listens to voters, and tries to convey a political mood.So I asked a Republican strategist in Richmond, Will Ritter, a veteran of Mitt Romney’s campaign, what sort of public data might support the idea that Spanberger was surging. “Other than yard signs and chatter I’ve got no evidence,” Ritter told me. “There’s no numerical backup to the VA-7 race being Dem-energized except farts and smiles.”The lack of polling in races like Brat’s is one factor leaving Beltway types uncertain about what’s really happening in the midterms. National polling organizations have never really bothered to spend time or money polling House races, instead devoting their energy to sexier statewide Senate campaigns or approval ratings about the president. As a result, national pundits keep getting floored by the “shocking” success of insurgent Democrats like Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez in New York, Andrew Gillum in Florida, and Ayanna Pressley in Massachusetts. If they had paid attention to the yard signs and chatter, or the opinions of the people living and breathing in those states and districts, political journalists might not have been blindsided.All of which makes the reticence of our national electoral forecasting class even more exasperating. The midterm elections are coming into focus, and things look positively awful for Republicans. Donald Trump’s approval rating has dipped to an atrocious 39 percent. A majority of Americans say he is simply unfit for office. Upstart progressives and millennials are flexing their muscles, defeating more established Democrats in competitive primaries from Florida to New York to Arizona. Incumbent Republicans in vulnerable districts are evading voters and the press; most hilariously, a Maine congressman hid from a reporter in a women’s bathroom when he was asked about the G.O.P.’s efforts to repeal the Affordable Care Act. Democratic voter turnout, meanwhile, is way up compared to 2014. Fund-raising, too. The biggest gender gap in American electoral history is also taking shape, with women saying they prefer Democrats by 58 percent to 33 percent, an eye-popping 25-point margin. Nancy Pelosi, ever cautious, allowed herself to grace the cover of Time magazine, something she certainly wouldn’t have done if she wasn’t planning on becoming the Speaker of the House once again.For any American with a pulse and even a whiff of political intelligence, two things are now self-evident with just two months until Election Day. Democrats everywhere in the country will walk over broken glass to vote in November, and Republicans are about to confront an unholy midterm bloodbath up and down the ballot. Every single piece of on-the-ground reporting suggests a wipeout on par with 2006 or 2010.So why are the experts unwilling to say as much? Yes, the idea that Democrats will take over the House has congealed into conventional wisdom, and Republicans on Capitol Hill will privately tell you they’re bracing themselves for a turnover in the lower chamber. But few journalists or pundits are willing to step out further and declare what should be pretty obvious to any reporter who has covered campaigns in the past: the vaunted blue wave is coming. Not only will it buoy Democrats to retake the House, but it will also propel Democratic Senate candidates in red states and power down-ballot Democrats into state legislative seats in every corner of the country. That’s exactly what happened in Virginia’s elections last year, right? That’s how it feels right now, a total wipeout for Republicans, even ones we assumed were safe. But in politics, the heart and the head are always at war.“There is some P.T.S.D. from 2016,” said Amy Walter, the editor of the Cook Political Report. “Nobody wants to go out and feel too confident because of the ‘what if’ factor. All of the indicators are, ‘Boy, this is going to be really bad for Republicans.’ If you’re the party in power, and your incumbents in districts that were easily held before are now only up within the margin of error, that’s not good. Or you can look at it and say, ‘Well in 2016, Hillary was up by the margin of error and look what happened!’”Walter’s point is that Trump’s election created a crisis of confidence inside the political world like nothing that has come before. His victory broke so many assumptions—all of the hallowed “rules”—about how politics is supposed to work. Journalists placed great faith in certain inside-baseball factors that now seem somehow less relevant: the importance of fund-raising, the need to hire blue-chip staffers, the impact of the dreaded “gaffe,” how demographic coalitions actually vote, the value of polling and television advertising, and America’s tolerance for politically incorrect rhetoric and even straight-up racism.And so heading into the midterms, smart people are staying away from the prediction game. When predictions do occur, they are imbued with caution. Even though Democrats are marching in the streets, super-charging their voter-registration numbers, electing a new generation of candidates, and making Republicans play defense even in Texas—all obvious factors that would normally point to a Democratic takeover—people in Washington are still tiptoeing carefully. The safest thing to say is that Democrats might take the House, and they probably won’t take the Senate. Everyone is debating whether there will be a blue wave, not nodding in wide-eyed agreement that there will definitely be a blue wave, even though the anti-Trump energy in this country has been apparent from the very moment he took office in 2017. All of it’s because in the Trump era, we’re all asking ourselves the same question: does anyone know anything about politics anymore?Covering the midterms race-by-race, while valuable, still doesn’t answer the big, complicated question of who will control the Senate and House come next January. The best macro-analysis of whether Democrats will take back the House comes from national polling models developed by outfits like FiveThirtyEight, which currently shows Democrats with an 81.8 percent chance of winning the House. They need to pick up 23 seats to do so. But Micah Cohen, the managing editor of FiveThirtyEight, said that while their analysis could indicate a blue wave, “the data also suggests that Dems could gain a dozen or so seats and that would also be in line with the data.”For Democrats, that kind of caution can sound maddening. But most of the press also took it for granted, mistakenly, that the polling models in 2016 were somehow predictive. One of the biggest media failures in the presidential election was misreading analyses like FiveThirtyEight’s, which actually gave Trump a one-in-three chance of winning. In baseball, that would be a damn good batting average. “The thing people need to get comfortable with [is] there is no solution to this problem of predicting the future,” Cohen said. “It’s not like if we could figure out the weights of certain polls, and we just knew the districts to visit to do on-the-ground reporting, we would have this perfect way to predict what’s going to happen. There is no perfect way. It’s a question about best guesses.”The Democratic enthusiasm I witnessed in Virginia, in Brat’s district, might also be undercut by G.O.P. gerrymandering efforts that date back to 2010. Congressional boundaries that were re-drawn to favor Republicans haven’t been tested like they will be this November. Spanberger might get suburban women and young voters riled up, but the district isn’t just suburban. It extends into rural central Virginia, where plenty of Trump voters reside. There’s also the relative health of the economy, which may give Trump air cover despite the fact that most Americans don’t like him. “There is this sense with Trump that everything looks like a disaster and the bottom is going to fall out, but somehow it doesn’t,” said Walter. “He continues to hold his own with Republicans and they are sticking with him. Independents don’t really like him, but they feel pretty decent about the economy. And so maybe that’s enough in some of these races.”