    After a tense debate, Obama and Romney joked around on Thursday night. 
NEW YORK — For a change, the nastiness between President Barack Obama and Mitt Romney was all in good fun Thursday night.  The two presidential candidates, who stood nearly toe to toe at their last debate, poked fun at themselves and each other in speeches at the annual Al Smith Dinner in New York, a benefit named after the 1920s-era Empire State governor that funds Catholic charities.  ( PHOTOS: 12 funniest Al Smith Dinner jokes)  Obama mocked his sleepy Denver debate performance, his middle name Hussein and Romney’s millions from the dais at the Waldorf Astoria, with Romney sitting a few feet away. Romney, who spoke first, made fun of Vice President Joe Biden’s incessant laughter at the veep debate, Obama’s reliance on Bill Clinton and his own personal fortune.  They were joined on the extensive dais by a who’s who of New York political and media elite, including Gov. Andrew Cuomo, New York City Mayor Mike Bloomberg, Sen. Chuck Schumer, talk-show host Katie Couric, Fox News chief Roger Ailes, MSNBC host Chris Matthews and Manhattan District Attorney Cyrus Vance. The two candidates were separated by Cardinal Timothy Dolan as they sat and ate.  Obama mentioned the debate on Long Island on Tuesday night, saying, “I felt really well rested after the nice long nap I had in the first debate.”  He deadpanned, “I learned that there are worse things that can happen to you on your anniversary than forgetting to get a gift. So, take note, gentlemen.”  Obama opened with a Clint Eastwood-GOP convention reference, telling the well-dressed crowd to take to their seats as they were finishing applauding because if they didn’t, the actor “would start yelling” at the empty chairs.  And later on he mentioned taking in sights in New York, including the old Yankee Stadium, frequently called “The House that Ruth Built.” But, Obama noted, “he didn’t really build that.”  He also mentioned that Mitt is actually Romney’s middle name and said, “I wish I could use my middle name.” He said he enjoyed having time to be in New York and shop at some stores in Midtown: “I understand Gov. Romney went shopping for some stores in Midtown.”  Romney, who has been knocked as stiff on the campaign trail for much of the 2012 cycle, was extremely loose in his turn at the dais, opening by thanking Al Smith IV, the emcee, who roasted both candidates.  “You’re an equal-opportunity basher, aren’t you?” the mic picked up Romney saying with a smile, before turning to the white-tie crowd and saying, “It’s nice to finally relax and wear what Ann and I wear around the house.”  He added, “Of course, I’m pleased that the president’s here. We were chatting pleasantly this evening as though Tuesday night never happened.”  He said that in such tough campaigns, both he and Obama are lucky to have “one person who’s always in our corner. … I have my beautiful wife, Ann. He has Bill Clinton.”  Romney imagined Obama counting the final days before the election, surveying the wealth represented at the hotel and said, “You have to wonder what he’s thinking — so little time, so much to redistribute.”  On Joe Biden, Romney said he wished the vice president could be there because he “laughs at everything.”  Romney also took shots at the media, which he has at times on the trail suggested is biased and at other times said is doing its job. He said his job is to come up with a strong vision for the country, “their job is to make sure no one else finds out about it.”  Romney, who adheres to the Mormon church’s rules against drinking, frequently made fun of his own teetotaling.  “Usually when I get [asked to events] like this, it’s as the designated driver,” he said. And he mocked his own use of Big Bird as a “straw man” at the first debate, which the Obama campaign spent the past few weeks trying to elevate.  The two men meet again for the third and final debate on Monday in Boca Raton, Fla. That debate will focus on foreign policy, which prompted this line from Obama: “Spoiler alert — we got bin Laden.”  Both Obama and Romney took note of the political aspirations of Cuomo, who is widely thought to be considering a White House run in 2016. Romney’s line made light of his own background: “He may be getting a little ahead of himself … the man has put in one term as a governor, he has a father who happened to be a governor and he thinks that’s enough to run for president.”  The dinner is a time-honored tradition for presidential candidates: Ronald Reagan spoke at the dinner, and George W. Bush famously joked that the well-heeled crowd at the Waldorf Astoria was “my base” in his 2000 speech at the dinner.  Obama and Romney, who have made clear how little they respect each other in their two debates, each offered pleasantries about the other at the end of their remarks. Each called the other a good father and family man.  “In our country, you can oppose someone in politics … without any ill will. There’s more to life than politics,” Romney said.  Obama, in his own remarks, seemed about to deliver a joke related to the lowest unemployment rate since he became president having been achieved last month; he paused and said, “I don’t have a joke here. I just thought it would be useful to remind people that the unemployment rate is the lowest since when I took office.”  Dolan was among the critics of the Health and Human Services mandate related to health care and abortion coverage that sparked controversy last year, but he made no mention of it in his remarks.  Romney seemed to be enjoying himself in a way he often doesn’t on the campaign trail. Obama also seemed to enjoy the barbs but underscored the late hour and close nature of the race by opening with a line noting that states like Ohio will decide the race in less than three weeks.  “Which,” the president said, “begs the question, what are we doing here?” 
