Biden says U.S. will end its combat mission in Iraq as its prime minister visits the White House.VideotranscripttranscriptU.S. Combat Mission in Iraq Will End, Biden SaysPresident Biden met with Prime Minister Mustafa al-Kadhimi of Iraq at the White House and said the U.S. military’s combat mission in that country will conclude by the end of the year, with the United States shifting into an advisory and supportive role.Iraq has been a vital part for, part of the United States for some time now in the Middle East, and we’ve been engaged deeply in Iraq for my entire career back in the Senate, as vice president, and as president. And I’ve worked with Iraq to... and a matter of fact, my son, Beau, was in Iraq for a year with the Army National Guard, and the sacrifices that so many, so many have made to build the U.S.-Iraq partnership has been real, and it’s consequential. And my administration is committed to strengthening that partnership, Mr. Prime Minister ... We’re also committed to our security cooperation. Our, our shared fight against ISIS is critical for the stability of the region, and our counterterrorism cooperation will continue, even as we shift to this new phase we’re going to be talking about ... Our role in Iraq will be as a... Dealing with not, it’s just to be available to continue to train, to assist, to help and to deal with ISIS as it arrives, but we are not going to be brought in here on a combat mission. This is a great honor to be here today with our American friends. We have a strategic partnership. I’m happy here in Washington to discuss the future of our nation. And how to prove this relation between our two countries. America, they help Iraq. Together, we fight and defeat ISIS. And I’d like to thank the American people on behalf of all Iraq’s people. Mr. President, I thank you for all the blood and treasure that America has given for a free and Democratic Iraq.President Biden met with Prime Minister Mustafa al-Kadhimi of Iraq at the White House and said the U.S. military’s combat mission in that country will conclude by the end of the year, with the United States shifting into an advisory and supportive role.CreditCredit...Tom Brenner for The New York TimesWASHINGTON — President Biden said on Monday that the United States would end its combat mission in Iraq by the end of the year, shifting fully to an advisory and training role as America dials down its involvement in long-term conflicts in the Middle East.“We’re not going to be, by the end of the year, in a combat mission,” Mr. Biden said as he met with Prime Minister Mustafa al-Kadhimi of Iraq at the White House Monday.The agreement to end the combat mission is largely symbolic, since U.S. troops no longer accompany Iraqi forces hunting remaining pockets of Islamic State fighters.Pentagon and other administration officials said they will remove a small but unspecified number of the 2,500 American forces currently stationed in Iraq, and reclassify on paper the roles of other forces to advise and assist their Iraqi counterparts. For his part, Mr. al-Kadhimi will have a political trophy to take home to satisfy anti-American factions in Iraq and the U.S. military presence will remain.“The objective of both sides is for nothing to change and to keep about 2,500 U.S. troops there that would do things they are already doing, that’s supporting Iraqi security forces, but not engage in combat,” said Sarhang Hamasaeed, director of Middle East Programs at the U.S. Institute of Peace.What appears to be a set piece of diplomatic theater is the latest effort by Mr. al-Kadhimi to tread between the needs and demands of Iraq’s two closest allies, the United States and Iran. Pro-Iranian factions have been clamoring for a U.S. departure, while Iraqi officials acknowledge they still need the help of American forces.But while giving Mr. al-Kadhimi temporary political cover, a reclassification of U.S. forces rather than a drawdown likely won’t satisfy the militias and political parties calling for a withdrawal of all troops, Iraqi officials say.“Changing their name from combat forces to trainers and advisers — we consider it as an attempt at deception,” said Mohammad al-Rubai’e, political spokesman for Asaib Ahl al-Haq, one of the biggest Iranian-backed militias, which maintains 16 seats in the Iraqi parliament.Correction: July 26, 2021An earlier version of this article misquoted President Biden because of an error in the White House pool report. Mr. Biden said, “We’re not going to be, by the end of the year, in a combat mission," not "in a combat zone."A bipartisan infrastructure deal teeters as Republicans pan the latest Democratic offer.ImageCredit...Katherine Taylor for The New York TimesA bipartisan infrastructure agreement appeared in peril on Monday as negotiators privately traded blame over their inability to resolve major issues, including how much to increase funding for public transit and water projects. The finger-pointing by Republicans and Democrats, done on condition of anonymity to avoid the appearance of torpedoing the talks, suggested that the bipartisan agreement triumphantly announced a month ago by President Biden and 10 senators in both parties has hit major snags on its way to being finalized. Negotiators have toiled to translate their agreement in principle — expected to provide $1.2 trillion over eight years, with nearly $600 billion of that in new federal funds — into legislative text that the Senate could consider. They are running out of time, with only two remaining weeks before the Senate is scheduled to begin its summer recess as Democrats aim to consider both an infrastructure bill and a $3.5 trillion budget blueprint carrying much of the rest of Mr. Biden’s agenda, including major expansions of health care, education, paid leave and measures to tackle climate change. Emerging from a meeting on Capitol Hill Monday evening, senators said conversations would continue through the evening.“If we have 10 people and we’re all negotiating, things don’t happen," said Senator Jon Tester, Democrat of Montana. “On any big piece of legislation it usually comes down to a couple people, and that’s what we’ve done.”“Give me some positive vibes,” he instructed reporters as he left. With the bipartisan group aiming to produce an infrastructure bill this week, Democrats on Sunday night delivered an offer intended to resolve a series of sticking points, including funding for water infrastructure, highways, bridges and broadband, as well as using unspent coronavirus relief funds to finance the package.Part of that offer included a proposed trade-off, according to a Democratic official close to the negotiations, that Democrats would accept a lower amount of highway funding proposed by Republicans if the G.O.P. would agree to their call to increase transit funding. But Republicans on Monday declared that offer insufficient. One Republican official said that Senator Chuck Schumer of New York, the majority leader, and White House officials were attempting to renegotiate elements of the deal that they had already agreed to. Other unresolved issues included whether to apply wage requirements established under the so-called Davis-Bacon Act to new infrastructure projects and how much money to put toward water infrastructure projects. Republicans unanimously blocked the Senate last week from taking up the emerging plan. It is unlikely Democrats would attempt to bring it up again without clear buy-in from at least 10 Republicans, the amount needed to clear the 60-vote threshold to overcome a filibuster if all 50 Democrats and independents were in favor. Negotiators continued to express optimism about the prospects for finalizing their deal this week, as they left the meeting on Monday.“If the bipartisan infrastructure bill falls apart, everything could fall apart,” said Senator Joe Manchin III, Democrat of West Virginia. He added, “We’re trying to get the best infrastructure bill with a bipartisan movement.”Even if the group were to reach agreement and it passed the Senate, its path forward is complicated. Speaker Nancy Pelosi of California has said that she will not bring it up for a vote in the House until the far more ambitious budget blueprint, which Democrats plan to muscle through unilaterally over Republican opposition, had also been approved. “The bill is not as green as I would like it to be,” Ms. Pelosi said of the bipartisan infrastructure package, urging that more programs be included to address climate change. “Nonetheless, I hope that it will pass. I won’t put it on the floor until we have the rest of the initiative.”Former U.S. Senator Barbara Boxer robbed, assaulted in Oakland.Barbara Boxer, 80, a former U.S. senator, announced Monday on her official Twitter account that she had been assaulted and robbed but was not seriously hurt.Ms. Boxer, a Democrat from California, served as a member of the U.S. House of Representatives for 10 years and a U.S. senator for 24 years before stepping down in 2017.Earlier today former Senator Barbara Boxer was assaulted in the Jack London Square neighborhood of Oakland. The assailant pushed her in the back, stole her cell phone and jumped in a waiting car. She is thankful that she was not seriously injured."— Barbara Boxer (@BarbaraBoxer) July 26, 2021
The Oakland Police Department confirmed in a statement that it was investigating the assault of a victim who was walking on the 300 block of 3rd Street in Oakland. The police department would not release the name of the victim. Officers were still searching for the suspect, who fled in a nearby waiting vehicle.Ms. Boxer’s official Twitter account said the assailant pushed her in the back and took her cellphone.“She is thankful that she was not seriously injured,” the statement said.The Jack London Square neighborhood is an entertainment district along the waterfront in Oakland that has restaurants, a farmers’ market and a summer concert and movie series.Shunned by G.O.P., Cheney and Kinzinger seek answers on Jan. 6 riotImageCredit...Stefani Reynolds for The New York TimesOutside the White House on Monday, the eve of the first hearing to investigate the Capitol riot, Representative Kevin McCarthy had an insult and a threat for the two members of his party daring to participate in the inquiry into how and why a pro-Trump mob attacked the Capitol on Jan. 6.He derided Representatives Liz Cheney of Wyoming, a staunch conservative and member of a storied Republican family, and Adam Kinzinger of Illinois, a six-term congressman and Air Force veteran, as “Pelosi Republicans,” referring to the House speaker who chose them to sit on the special panel investigating the assault. As the minority leader, he suggested he might try to strip them of other committee assignments as punishment.Around the same time, Representative Nancy Pelosi made it clear that the pair would have prominent roles in the proceedings. Ms. Cheney would be cast in the spot traditionally played by the ranking member of a committee, afforded the chance to make an opening statement immediately after the chairman, Representative Bennie Thompson, Democrat of Mississippi.The divergent moves reflected the unusual place in which Ms. Cheney and Mr. Kinzinger find themselves as the investigation gets underway — ostracized by their own party and embraced by Democrats as the only Republicans willing to demand a full and bipartisan accounting for the worst attack on Congress in centuries.It was only months ago that Mr. McCarthy himself said that President Donald J. Trump “bears responsibility” for the mob violence; Senator Mitch McConnell, the top Republican, warned that following Mr. Trump’s lies about a stolen election would lead democracy into a “death spiral”; and scores of Republicans called for an investigation of what had happened on Jan. 6.But despite the injuries, blood and death of that day, which threatened to end the United States’ streak of peaceful transfers of presidential power, Republicans quickly fell into line behind Mr. Trump. Some denied or downplayed the violence, others embraced conspiracy theories about who was to blame and many simply pushed to stop talking about the riot.Republican lawmakers who had once demanded answers voted against forming an independent bipartisan commission to investigate, with only 35 in the House supporting its creation. Even the 10 Republicans who voted to impeach Mr. Trump have mostly stayed silent.Only Ms. Cheney and Mr. Kinzinger, who have continued to be vocal in denouncing the former president and the violence he inspired, supported the creation of the select committee. It is to hold its first hearing on Tuesday, when several police officers who battled the mob are scheduled to testify.The E.P.A. will revise a Trump-era rule on toxic wastewater from coal plants.ImageCredit...Erin Schaff/The New York TimesThe Biden administration will revise a Trump-era rule that allowed many coal-fired power plants to avoid or delay installing equipment that could prevent lead, selenium and other toxic pollutants from seeping into rivers and streams, the Environmental Protection Agency announced Monday.Agency officials said that in the fall, they will formally propose a new rule strengthening standards overseeing how coal-fired power plants that use steam to generate electricity are permitted to dispose of contaminated wastewater. They hope to finalize the rule in 2024, after a required public comment period.In the meantime, though, the E.P.A. will continue to enforce former President Donald J. Trump’s weaker standard and continue to defend it in court, where environmental groups have challenged its legality. Clean water advocates called the E.P.A. decision disappointing.“In our mind, vacating the Trump rule is the fastest way to get to a world where you’re cracking down on this heavy metal pollution,” said Bret Hartl, government affairs director at the Center for Biological Diversity, an environmental group that was among a group of organizations that have mounted a legal challenge to Mr. Trump’s policy.Mr. Hartl called the E.P.A.’s promise to impose stronger standards by the end of President Biden’s term “not particularly comforting,” adding, “Is it better than not doing anything? Yes. But is it the fastest way to ratchet down this pollution? No.”Some power plants use coal, oil or natural gas to heat water in boilers, which generates steam that is then used to drive the turbines that are connected to electricity generators. But the plants generate wastewater laced with toxic pollutants like arsenic, selenium and lead that are linked to cancer, heart disease and developmental problems in young children, and that can leach into rivers, ponds and other waterways.In 2015 the Obama administration required coal plants to upgrade their wastewater systems to treat the heavy metals. In 2020, the Trump administration reversed much of that policy as part of a sweeping effort to revitalize the declining coal industry, and gave electricity companies more time and flexibility to meet the standards.Michael S. Regan, the E.P.A. administrator, said in a statement that the agency conducted a scientific assessment and concluded the agency can better protect against contaminated wastewater by keeping the weaker rule in place rather than discarding it altogether as it worked toward strengthening the policy. The E.P.A., he said, will “quickly move to strengthen water quality protections and further reduce power plant pollution.”Michelle Bloodworth, president of the American Coalition for Clean Coal Electricity, which represents coal producers, noted in a statement that there are no details yet of how the E.P.A. plans to revise the Trump rule. She said she hoped the changes would not lead to more coal plant closures, which she said “would further jeopardize the reliability and resilience of our electricity supply.”The V.A. issues an employee vaccine mandate, a first for a federal agency.ImageCredit...Nathan Howard/Getty ImagesWASHINGTON — The Department of Veterans Affairs will require 115,000 of its frontline health care workers to be vaccinated against the coronavirus in the next two months, making it the first federal agency to mandate that employees be inoculated, government officials said on Monday.The move comes as concern is growing that the substantial portion of the population that has not been vaccinated is contributing to the rapid spread of the highly contagious Delta variant. While it was a sharp departure from the Biden administration’s reluctance to embrace mandates, it was part of a broader shift in which New York City, many hospital chains and some private employers are deciding that the time has come to make being vaccinated a requirement.“I am doing this because it’s the best way to keep our veterans safe, full stop,” Denis McDonough, the secretary of veterans affairs, said in a telephone interview on Monday. The department is one of the largest federal employers and is the biggest integrated health care system in the country.The mandate will apply to workers who are “the most patient-facing,” Mr. McDonough said, including doctors, dentists, registered nurses, physician assistant and some specialists. Beginning on Wednesday, those health care workers will have eight weeks to get fully vaccinated or face penalties including possible removal, he said.The White House will continue to impose travel bans, citing Delta variant concerns.VideotranscripttranscriptWhite House to Continue Travel Bans Due to Delta VariantJen Psaki, the White House press secretary, said the administration would maintain existing restrictions on entry to the United States for Europeans and others, citing concerns over the spread of the Delta variant.We will maintain existing travel restrictions at this point for a few reasons: The more transmissible Delta variant is spreading both here and around the world, driven by the Delta variant cases are rising here at home, particularly among those who are unvaccinated and appear likely to continue in the weeks ahead. The C.D.C. just advised Americans against travel to the United Kingdom this past Monday given the surge in cases. They will evaluate and make recommendations based on health data. But I don’t have a timeline to predict for you because it’s all about what success we have at getting more people vaccinated, getting more vaccines out to the world and fighting the virus.Jen Psaki, the White House press secretary, said the administration would maintain existing restrictions on entry to the United States for Europeans and others, citing concerns over the spread of the Delta variant.CreditCredit...Stefani Reynolds for The New York TimesThe Biden administration will continue to restrict the entry of Europeans and others into the United States, citing concerns that infected travelers may contribute to further spread of the contagious Delta variant across the country, Jen Psaki, the White House press secretary, said Monday afternoon.Concern about the variant had convinced officials not to lift the current travel restrictions on foreigners, Ms. Psaki said, some of which had been in place since the beginning of the pandemic. Vaccines remain effective against the worst outcomes of Covid-19, including from the Delta variant.“The more transmissible Delta variant is spreading both here and around the world,” she told reporters, adding that cases are rising in the United States, particularly among the unvaccinated.The decision is a blow to the travel industry, which hoped that a lifting of the travel bans could increase tourism for the remaining summer months, helping hotels, airlines and other businesses that have been struggling.But Ms. Psaki said that it was unclear when the United States would remove the bans completely.“I don’t have a timeline to predict for you because it’s all about what success we have at getting more people vaccinated, getting more vaccines out to the world and fighting the virus,” she said.The United States began restricting travel from foreigners in January 2020, when former President Donald J. Trump restricted some travel from China in the hopes of preventing the spread of the virus. That effort largely failed.But health officials pressed the Trump administration to expand travel bans to much of Europe during the first surge of the pandemic in the spring of 2020, and more countries have been added to the ban as the original virus and several variants have spread rapidly from country to country.The Trump administration also used a public health authority known as Title 42 to effectively shut down the southern border to entry, citing worries that immigrants crossing on foot could bring the virus into the country. The Biden administration stopped enforcing the rule for unaccompanied children crossing the border alone and for some families.But Ms. Psaki said that the Title 42 restrictions, like the other travel bans, would remain for the time being.“We have never conveyed or announced a timeline for Title 42,” she said. “So nothing has changed in that regard, it remains in place, and it will remain in place as long as that is the guidance from our health and medical experts.”Lawmakers summon former top health officials to discuss political meddling in the U.S. pandemic response.ImageCredit...Carlos Barria/ReutersEleven current or former top federal health officials were summoned by House Democrats on Monday for transcribed interviews with investigators, as part of a widening inquiry into the Trump administration’s political interference with the nation’s pandemic response.Democratic members of the House Select Subcommittee on the Coronavirus Crisis sent letters seeking voluntary appearances from the officials, including two career scientists who recently left the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention: Dr. Nancy Messonnier, who was muzzled after she warned in February 2020 that the coronavirus pandemic would create serious disruption in Americans’ lives, and Dr. Anne Schuchat, who spent six years as the agency’s No. 2 official.“Evidence previously uncovered by the Select Subcommittee and other sources shows that Trump Administration officials sought to suppress accurate scientific information and attempted to retaliate against officials, such as yourself, who provided truthful information to the public,” the Democrats wrote to Dr. Messonnier, who recently took a new position at the Skoll Foundation, a philanthropy in California.The letters are a sign that, despite President Biden’s forward-looking approach, the Democrats on the panel are intent on looking back. The panel was appointed last year by Speaker Nancy Pelosi to investigate all aspects of the federal response.Republicans on the subcommittee have accused Democrats of ignoring matters like the “lab leak theory,” a hotly disputed assertion that the pandemic stemmed from a virology laboratory in Wuhan, China, the city where the first Covid-19 cases were reported.The Trump administration’s efforts to browbeat C.D.C. scientists, including Drs. Messonnier and Schuchat, have been reported extensively by The New York Times and other news outlets. On Monday, Democrats on the House panel released a new piece of evidence: an email from Dr. Paul Alexander, a part-time assistant professor of health research methods, who had a brief and controversial tenure as an official in the Department of Health and Human Services.In the email, Dr. Alexander demanded that Michael Caputo, the department’s spokesman under Mr. Trump, put an “immediate stop” to publication of the C.D.C.’s weekly scientific reports until Dr. Alexander had approved them.Rep. Clay Higgins, a staunch opponent of mask mandates, announces he and his family have Covid-19.ImageCredit...J. Scott Applewhite/Associated PressRepresentative Clay Higgins, Republican of Louisiana and an outspoken coronavirus skeptic who has drafted legislation to make vaccine mandates a federal crime, announced this weekend that he, his wife and his son have Covid-19.The announcement on Facebook, which did not provide details on symptoms, raised many questions. Mr. Higgins said he and his wife had previously been infected with the coronavirus in January 2020, at the dawn of the pandemic, when testing was not widely available. He did not say whether he had gotten an antibody test to confirm a previous infection, nor has he said whether he has been vaccinated against the coronavirus.“This episode is far more challenging,” he wrote. “It has required all of my devoted energy.”Mr. Higgins also asserted, without proof, that the Chinese Communist Party created the novel coronavirus as a biological warfare agent, calling it “weaponized.”Republicans have increasingly stated, with no evidence, that the coronavirus is human-made and leaked from a laboratory in Wuhan, China — some say intentionally. Although President Biden has ordered an intelligence assessment of the theory, most scientists continue to believe that the virus emerged naturally from animals. A senior virologist at the Wuhan Institute of Virology has strenuously denied the virus was created or leaked from her lab.Mr. Higgins boasted in May about his opposition to federal mandates to fight the pandemic.“I do not support mandatory vaccines, mask mandates or any form of required vaccine passport,” he wrote on Facebook. “In fact, I am introducing legislation making mandated or forced compliance with medical procedures a federal crime.”In May 2020, he questioned the use of face masks, despite widespread agreement among experts that their use was important in limiting the spread of the coronavirus.Some public health experts think that a vaccine mandate could help nudge a greater share of the country toward receiving the inoculation. About 49 percent of people in the United States have been fully vaccinated, according to federal data.It is unclear how many Republicans in Congress have been vaccinated. The No. 2 House Republican, Steve Scalise of Louisiana, received his first vaccine dose two Sundays ago — a remarkably late date, given that vaccines have been widely available on Capitol Hill for months and that one House Republican and one House Republican-elect have died of Covid-19.Mr. Scalise had initially said he did not need the vaccine because he had previously been infected, an assertion also made by Senators Rand Paul, Republican of Kentucky, and Ron Johnson, Republican of Wisconsin. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention recommends that anyone age 12 or older — regardless of whether they have had the virus — get a vaccination.A voting rights group backed by athletes launches a campaign focused on criminal justice reform.ImageCredit...Kim Klement/Associated PressMore Than a Vote, the organization launched a year ago by prominent Black athletes and entertainers to protect African Americans’ voting rights, is launching a campaign focused on the nation’s criminal justice system.The campaign, called Protect Our People, kicked off Monday with an episode of the HBO series “The Shop,” which is produced by the basketball star LeBron James and Maverick Carter, Mr. James’s close friend and business partner. Mr. James was among the charter members of More Than a Vote. The episode features a conversation about racial justice and police killings between Miami Police Chief Art Acevedo, Natasha Cloud, the pro basketball player who skipped the 2020-21 W.N.B.A. season to focus on social justice concerns; Benjamin Crump, an attorney who has represented families of Black people killed by police; Philonise Floyd, the brother of George Floyd; the journalist Jemele Hill; and Meek Mill, the rapper and criminal justice activist.“2020 proved that when athletes speak out about the issues that matter to them, people listen. As we said at the beginning of this year, this effort was never about one election,” said Michael Tyler, a spokesman for More Than a Vote. “The Protect Our People campaign will replicate the successful model of harnessing athlete activism in electoral politics and apply it to the ongoing fight to move public opinion and change criminal justice policies that regularly victimize Black communities.”The Protect Our People campaign has also produced advertisements online urging senators to pass the George Floyd Justice in Policing Act, which passed the House in March but remains stalled in the Senate. And it intends to push for local legislation, including a proposal in California to implement a statewide system for revoking the license of police officers who commit serious misconduct and a referendum in Cleveland that would create an independent oversight panel to investigate police misconduct.Thomas Barrack, a Trump ally and former fund-raiser, pleads not guilty to illegal lobbying charges.VideotranscripttranscriptTrump Ally Pleads Not Guilty to Illegal LobbyingThomas J. Barrack Jr., a billionaire private equity investor and close ally to former President Donald J. Trump, pleaded not guilty to charges of illegal lobbying for the United Arab Emirates.“Let him through, let him through.” “Let him through.” “Give him room, guys, give him room, c’mon.” “Good luck, sir, good luck.” “Guys, step back.” “Free Barrack.” “Over to the right, to the right.” “Free Barrack.” “Hey, hey, hey, hey. Hey, hey — easy.” “This is private property.” “Lock him up.” “Tom Barrack pled not guilty today. He did that because he’s innocent. The charges that were presented to him today were based on information that were presented and discussed at my conference room two years ago. And he is innocent. We look forward to proving it in court, and we’ll be releasing a separate statement from Mr. Barrack.”Thomas J. Barrack Jr., a billionaire private equity investor and close ally to former President Donald J. Trump, pleaded not guilty to charges of illegal lobbying for the United Arab Emirates.CreditCredit...Jefferson Siegel for The New York TimesThomas J. Barrack Jr., a billionaire private equity investor and close ally to former President Donald J. Trump, pleaded not guilty on Monday to charges of illegal lobbying for the United Arab Emirates. The not-guilty plea puts Mr. Barrack on course for a high-profile trial that is likely to engulf Mr. Trump and the close-knit business world that aided the former president’s rise to power. Mr. Barrack served as a key fund-raiser to Mr. Trump throughout his time in office, including a stint as chairman of Mr. Trump’s inaugural committee. “Of course I am innocent of all these charges, and we will prove that in court,” Mr. Barrack said in a statement. Earlier this week, Mr. Barrack was released on $250 million bond and ordered to wear a GPS location-monitoring bracelet at all times, according to a Justice Department spokesman. Mr. Barrack, 74, entered the plea during a Monday appearance in Federal District Court in Brooklyn, where he was arraigned on charges that he acted as an unregistered agent of a foreign power, obstructed justice and lied to the F.B.I.Mr. Barrack is one of several of Mr. Trump’s former aides, fund-raisers and associates to face criminal charges. He was charged alongside a business associate, Matthew Grimes, 27, who was freed on $5 million bond. Mr. Grimes is also required to wear a monitoring device and is subject to a curfew from 10 p.m. to 6 a.m.According to the seven-count indictment laid out by federal prosecutors, Mr. Barrack used his relationship with Mr. Trump’s campaign to promote the Emirates’ agenda at the behest of senior Emirati officials. Once Mr. Trump was elected, the indictment states, Mr. Barrack invited senior Emirati officials to give him a “wish list” of foreign policy actions they wanted Washington to take within the first 100 days, first six months and first year of Mr. Trump’s term, and by the end of it, prosecutors said.Glenn Thrush contributed to this story.Bob Moses, a pioneer of the civil rights movement, dies at 86.ImageCredit...Rogelio V. Solis/Associated PressBob Moses, a soft-spoken pioneer of the civil rights movement who faced relentless intimidation and brutal violence to register Black voters in Mississippi in the 1960s, and who later started a national organization devoted to teaching math as a means to a more equal society, died on Sunday at his home in Hollywood, Fla. He was 86.His daughter Maisha Moses confirmed his death. She did not specify a cause.Mr. Moses cut a decidedly different image from other prominent Black figures in the 1960s, especially those who sought change by working with the country’s white political establishment.Typically dressed in denim bib overalls and seemingly more comfortable around sharecroppers than senators, he insisted that he was an organizer, not a leader. He said he drew inspiration from an older generation of civil rights organizers, like Ella Baker, a leader of the Southern Christian Leadership Conference, and her “quiet work in out-of-the-way places and the commitment of organizers digging into local communities.”“He exemplified putting community interests above ego and personal interest,” Derrick Johnson, the president of the N.A.A.C.P., said in a phone interview. “If you look at his work, he was always pushing local leadership first.”In 1960 he left his job as a high school teacher in New York City for Mississippi, where he organized poor, illiterate and rural Black residents, and quickly became a legend among civil rights organizers in a state known for enforcing segregation with cross burnings and lynchings. Over the next five years, he helped to register thousands of voters and trained a generation of organizers in makeshift freedom schools.White segregationists, including local law enforcement officials, responded to his efforts with violence. At one point during a voter-registration drive, a sheriff’s cousin bashed Mr. Moses’ head with a knife handle. Bleeding, he kept going, staggering up the steps of a courthouse to register a couple of Black farmers.Another time, three Klansmen shot at a car in which Mr. Moses was a passenger as it drove through Greenwood, Miss. Mr. Moses cradled the bleeding driver and managed to bring the careening car to a stop.Arrested and jailed many times, Mr. Moses developed a reputation for extraordinary calm in the face of horrific violence. Taylor Branch, the author of “Parting the Waters,” a Pulitzer Prize-winning account of the early civil rights movement, told The New York Times in 1993 that “in Mississippi, Bob Moses was the equivalent of Martin Luther King.”A veteran prosecutor was tapped to lead the U.S. Attorney’s Office in Washington.The White House on Monday nominated a former federal prosecutor to lead the U.S. Attorney’s office in Washington, overseeing high-profile investigations including the prosecutions of hundreds of Trump supporters charged in the Jan. 6 attack on the Capitol.The nominee, Matt Graves, a longtime veteran of the office, led its fraud and public corruption unit before becoming a partner at DLA Piper, a prominent white-shoe law firm.ImageCredit...DLA PiperIf the Senate confirms his nomination, Mr. Graves will oversee an office that investigates some of the nation’s most sensitive public corruption and national security matters, including cases involving top government officials and leaks of classified information.It is also the prosecutor’s office for the District of Columbia and works closely with Washington’s Metropolitan Police to combat and prosecute local crimes. It has often been led by people with deep ties to Washington, and many of its alumni have become top Justice Department leaders, including Attorney General Merrick B. Garland; the deputy attorney general, Lisa O. Monaco; former Attorney General Eric H. Holder Jr., and the former head of the Justice Department’s national security division, Kenneth L. Wainstein.Mr. Graves will also be tasked with restoring public faith in the office.It was thrown into tumult during the Trump administration, when then President Trump and his allies replaced its confirmed U.S. attorney, Jessie K. Liu, a veteran of the office, with leaders viewed as more amenable to Mr. Trump’s political agenda and interfered in the criminal cases of Trump allies, including the sentencing recommendation for his longtime friend Roger J. Stone Jr., who was convicted of seven felonies before Mr. Trump later pardoned him, and of his former national security adviser Michael T. Flynn. While those actions led to a public firestorm of criticism, the office privately grappled with political pressures to keep alive dead-end leak investigations involving the former F.B.I. director James B. Comey and Representative Adam B. Schiff, Democrat of California — both considered Mr. Trump’s foes.In the waning days of the Trump administration, the career prosecutors in those investigations, along with career and political leaders at the main Justice Department in Washington, used those investigations to fight for the phone and email records of reporters to identify the sources of the leaks.If confirmed, Mr. Graves would replace Channing D. Phillips, another longtime veteran of the office who has served as the acting U.S. attorney since March.‘Long Covid’ patients will be covered by federal disability law, Biden says.VideotranscripttranscriptFederal Disability Law Will Protect ‘Long Covid’ Patients, Biden SaysPresident Biden said the benefits and protections of the Americans with Disabilities Act would now extend to people facing ongoing health problems caused by a coronavirus infection that occurred weeks or months before.Thirty-one years ago, after its passage, many Americans have never lived in a world without the A.D.A. Generations have grown up not knowing a time before it existed, but many of us can still recall in America, where a person with a disability was denied service in restaurants and grocery stores, and could be, where a person using a wheelchair couldn’t ride in a train or take a bus to work or to school, or an employer could refuse to hire you because of a disability — an America that wasn’t built for all Americans. Then we passed the A.D.A., and made a commitment to build a nation for all of us, all of us. For more than 60 million Americans living with disabilities, the A.D.A. is so much more than a law. It’s a source of opportunity, participation, independent living and respect and dignity, the bulwark against discrimination and a path to independence. I’m proud to announce a new effort, the first of its kind, to help Americans grappling with long-term effects of Covid-19 that doctors call “long Covid.” Many Americans who seemingly recover from the virus still face lingering challenges like breathing problems, brain fog, chronic pain and fatigue. These conditions can sometimes — can sometimes — rise to the level of a disability. So we’re bringing agencies together to make sure Americans with “long Covid” who have a disability have access to the rights and resources that are due under the disability law.President Biden said the benefits and protections of the Americans with Disabilities Act would now extend to people facing ongoing health problems caused by a coronavirus infection that occurred weeks or months before.CreditCredit...Tom Brenner for The New York TimesAmericans suffering from “long Covid” — a term referring to new or ongoing health problems from a coronavirus infection that occurred weeks or months ago — will have access to the benefits and protection provided under federal disability law, President Biden said on Monday.Speaking in the Rose Garden to celebrate the 31st anniversary of the Americans with Disabilities Act, Mr. Biden listed some of the lingering effects that have been seen in coronavirus survivors, including “breathing problems, brain fog, chronic pain or fatigue,” and noted that the effects sometimes rise to the level of a disability.“We are bringing agencies together to make sure Americans with long Covid, who have a disability, have access to the rights and resources that are due under the disability law,” Mr. Biden said, noting that they would include special accommodations and services in the workplace, in schools and in the health care system.In some cases, the health effects of Covid-19 can persist for months after initially causing only mild symptoms. A study published in April found that a coronavirus infection also appears to increase the risk of death and chronic medical conditions afterward, even in people who were never sick enough with the virus to be hospitalized.The research, based on records of patients in the Department of Veterans Affairs health system, also found that non-hospitalized Covid survivors had a 20 percent greater chance of needing outpatient medical care in the six months following infection than did people who had not contracted the coronavirus.