          Sep 25, 2018, 10:17 am               	CREDIT: Tom Fox-Pool/Getty Images     	A group of anti-fascist protesters confronted Sen. Ted Cruz (R-TX) while he and wife were sitting down to dinner at a fancy Italian restaurant in Washington, D.C on Monday night, angered over his support for Supreme Court nominee and accused sexual predator Brett Kavanaugh
The protest began when a sexual assault survivor asked Cruz to do more to respond to the growing number of sexual assault allegations against Kavanaugh. “I know that you’re very close friends with Mr. Kavanaugh,” she said. “Do you believe survivors, sir?” After he dismissed her question, saying simply, “God bless you, ma’am,” a growing chant of “We believe survivors!” chased Cruz and his wife out of the restaurant.
Sexual assault survivor questioned Cruz during disruption at fancy Washington DC restaurant. Cruz ignores her. #CancelKavanaugh pic.twitter.com/bbtQ8TqE4H
— Smash Racism DC (@SmashRacismDC) September 25, 2018
Smash Racism DC posted a statement taking credit for the protest along with activists from Resist This, DC IWW, members of DC Democratic Socialists of America, anarchists, women, sexual assault survivors, and members of the LGBTQ community.
“While our disruption does not compare in scale to the disruptions his actions as a Senator have had on millions of American lives, we hope that it reminds Cruz and others like him that they are not safe from the people they have hurt,” the statement said.
“This is a message to Ted Cruz, Brett Kavanaugh, Donald Trump and the rest of the racist, sexist, transphobic, and homophobic right-wing scum: You are not safe. We will find you. We will expose you. We will take from you the peace you have taken from so many others.”
The protest is reminiscent of a series of protests and actions that took place a few months ago over the Trump administration’s “zero tolerance” immigration policy, which forcibly separated children from their families at the border. Secretary of Homeland Security Kirstjen Nielsen and White House adviser Stephen Miller were both similarly confronted in Mexican restaurants, and a Virginia restaurant refused to serve White House Press Secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders.
As the lead protester acknowledged, Cruz and Kavanaugh are old friends. Cruz sits on the Senate Judiciary Committee, which means he has one of the deciding votes in advancing Kavanaugh’s nomination. While Cruz believes that Kavanaugh’s first accuser, Dr. Christine Blasey Ford, “should have a full opportunity to tell her story before the Judiciary Committee,” he has also accused Senate Democrats of “playing games” by trying to delaying the confirmation vote.
Cruz has likewise suggested — with no evidence — that the accusations are political in nature, rather than reflecting women’s actual experiences being victimized by Kavanaugh. “The fact that we are fighting battles like this really underscores the stakes,” he said last week. “The Democrats want far left judicial activists on the Supreme Court. They want activists who will impose their own left win policy agenda and set aside the decisions of democratically elected legislatures.”
Smash Racism DC concluded its statement about the protest by demanding “a world free of sexual violence, and state violence” and “a world without prisons, borders, or capitalism. “           