WASHINGTON – It began Thursday as an emotionally charged Senate hearing with Christine Blasey Ford offering gripping testimony that rallied congressional Democrats to her side. It ended with a fiery, passionate defense from Brett Kavanaugh that cemented Republican support for their embattled Supreme Court nominee.After more than seven hours of questions and answers, heated rhetoric and tearful recollections, not one senator said publicly they had changed their mind about Kavanaugh's bid to sit on the nation's highest court. And most lawmakers on the fence – specifically just a handful of moderates in each party – stayed there, at least for now. Only one, Sen. Bob Corker, R-Tenn., announced his decision. Both Ford and Kavanaugh were "compelling," but the nominee "deserves the presumption of innocence" and he's qualified for the lifetime appointment, Corker said. Other wavering senators, including Republicans Susan Collins of Maine and Jeff Flake of Arizona, hold Kavanaugh’s fate in their hands. They stayed mostly mum on Thursday, with several going out of their way to avoid reporters stationed across the Capitol.Flake, a member of the committee, gave no hint of his leanings and asked no questions at the hearing. Instead, he described the committee as a group of 21 "imperfect" individuals, and said that the two witnesses' conflicting accounts left considerable doubt. "We’ll never move beyond that," the Arizona senator declared. Others lawmakers in Washington absorbed the bruising hearing and then retreated to their partisan camps. Senate Democrats escalated their demands for an FBI investigation and a delay in the nomination process. Republicans stuck to their collective message that the vote should be held as quickly as possible."I think it’s time to vote," Sen. John Cornyn, R-Texas, told reporters after the marathon hearing ended. "The longer that the nomination remains open, we know that more and more of these scurrilous, anonymous and uncorroborated allegations will be made."Of Ford's testimony, he added, "I don’t think they’ve met their burden of proof.""We believe her," Sen. Elizabeth Warren, D-Mass., tweeted from the other side of the partisan divide. Several Democrats suggested that Kavanaugh's combative testimony was in itself disqualifying.“Judge Kavanaugh exhibited temperament Americans do not want in fair judges," said Sen. Sheldon Whitehouse, D-R.I. "He was discourteous, lashing out at senators raising legitimate questions, and made unfounded conspiracy allegations about imagined plots by political enemies."Senate Democratic Leader Chuck Schumer, D-N.Y., said if Republicans are "so certain of Judge Kavanaugh’s story, they should immediately demand that the White House order the FBI to reopen the background investigation, and hold off on a vote for several days so all the facts can come out.”House Democrats also stepped into the fray, even though they have no vote on the nomination and no real power to influence the outcome.A pair of House Democrats asked President Donald Trump to withdraw the nomination altogether. And more than 60 House Democrats urged Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell, R-Ky., to postpone a vote on Kavanaugh.“As a lifetime appointment to our nation’s highest court is on the line, we implore you to abandon the artificial timeline you have created, support these women who have come forward, and do your duty to the American people by conducting a fair and balanced nomination process,” the Democratic lawmakers said in a missive to McConnell.It was hyper-political end to an extraordinary day on Capitol Hill. At 10 a.m., the riveting Senate hearing began to play in congressional offices, in hallways, in bathrooms – on cell phones, on computer screens, and on televisions. It also aired on Air Force One, with Fox News’s coverage live as President Donald Trump flew back to Washington from New York.Trump later condemned Democrats and pressed for a quick vote on his nominee."Democrats’ search and destroy strategy is disgraceful and this process has been a total sham and effort to delay, obstruct, and resist," Trump tweeted. "The Senate must vote!" In the hearing room, at least one Democratic lawmaker wept openly as Ford delivered her account of sexual assault from more than three decades ago. Others expressed sympathy, support, and gratitude for Ford's courage in coming forward. Republican lawmakers initially remained somewhat muted, declining to pass judgment on Ford before they heard from Kavanaugh. During an early break in the hearing, Sen. John Kennedy, R-La., drew his finger across his lips to indicate he would have nothing to say."I’m not going to comment on any aspects of this hearing until it’s completed," said Sen. Thom Tillis, R-N.C., who later declared that Kavanuagh had his vote.But Kavanaugh's angry denials, as well as his tearful account of the threats and harassment against his family, seemed to unite and energize Republicans. "I don’t know how you can listen to him and not realize that he’s what he says he is,” Hatch said, adding that he believes Kavanaugh will be confirmed. Sen. Lindsey Graham, R-S.C., called Ford "a nice lady who has come forward to tell a hard story that’s uncorroborated."But that should not be enough to derail Kavanaugh's nomination, he said. He accused Democrats of trying to delay a vote until after the November election, when control of the Senate is up for grabs."All I can say is that we’re 40-something days away from the election and their [Democrats’] goal — not Miss Ford’s goal — is to lay this past the midterms so they can win the Senate and never allow [President] Trump to fill the seat,” Graham charged.By Thursday evening, Senate GOP leaders said the Judiciary Committee would vote on Kavanaugh's nomination Friday and the full Senate could begin debate on Saturday. 