VideotranscripttranscriptKey Moments From the Blasey-Kavanaugh HearingChristine Blasey Ford and Judge Brett Kavanaugh testified before the Senate Judiciary Committee to address Dr. Blasey’s sexual assault allegation against the Supreme Court nominee.“I am here because I believe it is my civic duty. ...” “This confirmation process has become a national disgrace.” “Early in the evening, I went up a very narrow set of stairs leading from the living room to a second floor to use the restroom. When I got to the top of the stairs, I was pushed from behind into a bedroom across from the bathroom. I couldn’t see who pushed me. Brett and Mark came into the bedroom and locked the door behind them. There was music playing in the bedroom. It was turned up louder by either Brett or Mark once we were in the room. I was pushed onto the bed and Brett got on top of me. He began running his hands over my body and grinding into me. I believed he was going to rape me. I tried to yell for help. When I did, Brett put his hand over my mouth to stop me from yelling. This is what terrified me the most and has had the most lasting impact on my life. It was hard for me to breathe, and I thought that Brett was accidentally going to kill me.” “Dr. Ford, with what degree of certainty do you believe Brett Kavanaugh assaulted you?” “One hundred percent.” “What is the strongest memory you have?” “Indelible in the hippocampus is the laughter — the uproarious laughter between the two, and they’re having fun at my expense.” “You’ve never forgotten that laughter, never forgotten them laughing at you?” “I was underneath one of them while the two laughed — two friends having a really good time with one another.” “Are you aware that the three people at the party besides yourself and Brett Kavanaugh have given statements under penalty of felony to the committee?” “Yes.” “And are you aware of what those statements say?” “Yes.” “Are you aware that they say that they have no memory or knowledge of such a party?” “I don’t expect that P.J. and Leland would remember this evening. It was a very unremarkable party. It was not one of their more notorious parties. Because nothing remarkable happened to them that evening — they were downstairs. And Mr. Judge is a different story — I would expect that he would remember that this happened.” “I categorically and unequivocally deny the allegation against me by Dr. Ford. This whole two-week effort has been a calculated and orchestrated political hit, fueled with apparent pent-up anger about President Trump and the 2016 election, fear that has been unfairly stoked about my judicial record, revenge on behalf of the Clintons and millions of dollars in money from outside, left-wing opposition groups. The other night, Ashley and my daughter Liza said their prayers. And little Liza, all of 10 years old, said to Ashley, we should pray for the woman.” “Was there ever a time when you drink so much that you couldn’t remember what happened or part of what happened the night before?” “I – no. I remember what happened. And, I think you’ve probably had beers, Senator, and so —” “So you’re saying there’s never been a case where you drank so much that you didn’t remember what happened the night before, or part of what happened?” “That’s — you’re asking about yeah, blackout. I don’t know, have you?” “Could you answer the question, Judge? And just — so you — that’s not happened? Is that your answer?” “Yeah, and I’m curious if you have.” “I have no drinking problem, Judge.” “Yeah, nor do I.” “O.K., thank you.” “In your yearbook, you talked about drinking and sexual exploits, did you not?” “Senator, let me take a step back and explain high school. I was No. 1 in the class, freshman —” “And I thought —” “No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no.” “I thought only the Senate could filibuster.” “I’m going to talk about my high school —” “I thought only the Senate could filibuster.” “No, no, I’m going to talk —” “Let him answer.” “I’m going to talk about my high school record if you’re going to sit here and mock me.” “You said, ‘I welcome any kind of investigation.’ I quote you. ‘I welcome any kind of investigation.’” “I welcome whatever the committee wants to do, because I’m telling the truth.” “I want to know what you want to do.” “I’m telling the truth.” “I want to know what you want to do, Judge.” “I’m innocent. I’m innocent of this charge.” “Then you’re prepared for an F.B.I. investigation?” “They don‘t reach conclusions. You reach the conclusions, Senator.“ “No, but they do investigate questions.” “If you wanted an F.B.I. investigation, you could’ve come to us. What you want to do is destroy this guy’s life, hold this seat open and hope you win in 2020. You said that, not me. You’ve got nothing to apologize for. When you see Sotomayor and Kagan, tell him that Lindsey said hello. Because I voted for them. I would never do to them what you’ve done to this guy. This is the most unethical sham since I’ve been in politics. And if you really wanted to know the truth, you sure as hell wouldn’t have done what you’ve done to this guy. Are you a gang rapist?” “No.” “I cannot imagine what you and your family have gone through.”Christine Blasey Ford and Judge Brett Kavanaugh testified before the Senate Judiciary Committee to address Dr. Blasey’s sexual assault allegation against the Supreme Court nominee.CreditCredit...Erin Schaff for The New York TimesSept. 27, 2018• Judge Brett M. Kavanaugh, President Trump’s Supreme Court nominee, came out swinging in the early moments of his testimony to senators, saying, “This confirmation process has become a national disgrace.”• Christine Blasey Ford said she was “terrified” but delivered powerful testimony to the Senate Judiciary Committee about her accusation that Judge Kavanaugh sexually assaulted her.• Immediately after the hearing adjourned, President Trump tweeted that “Judge Kavanaugh showed America exactly why I nominated him.”• Senator Lindsey Graham exploded across the dais in an outburst unusual even for a highly partisan body. “What you want to do is destroy this guy’s life, hold this seat open and hope you win in 2020,” he said.• Republicans deferred their questioning time of Dr. Blasey to a veteran prosecutor, Rachel Mitchell. Democrats used their questions to make broad points about the integrity of Republicans’ investigation, the treatment of the victims of sexual violence in the United States and Dr. Blasey in particular.VideotranscripttranscriptKavanaugh Responds to Allegations in Opening StatementJudge Brett Kavanaugh, President Trump’s Supreme Court nominee, testified before the Senate Judiciary Committee and vehemently denied the sexual assault accusation made by Christine Blasey Ford.This whole two-week effort has been a calculated and orchestrated political hit, fueled with apparent pent-up anger about President Trump and the 2016 election, fear that has been unfairly stoked about my judicial record, revenge on behalf of the Clintons, and millions of dollars in money from outside, left-wing opposition groups. This is a circus. The consequences will extend long past my nomination. The consequences will be with us for decades. This grotesque and coordinated character assassination will dissuade confident and good people of all political persuasions from serving our country. And as we all know, in the United States political system of the early 2000s, what goes around comes around. I am an optimistic guy. I always try to be on the sunrise side of the mountain, to be optimistic about the day that is coming. But today I have to say that I fear for the future. Last time I was here, I told this committee that a federal judge must be independent, not swayed by public or political pressure. I said I was such a judge. And I am. I will not be intimidated into withdrawing from this process. You’ve tried hard. You’ve given it your all. No one can question your effort. But your coordinated and well-funded effort to destroy my good name and destroy my family will not drive me out. The vile threats of violence against my family will not drive me out. You may defeat me in the final vote, but you’ll never get me to quit. Never. I’m here today to tell the truth. I’ve never sexually assaulted anyone, not in high school, not in college, not ever. Sexual assault is horrific. One of my closest friends to this day is a woman who was sexually abused and who in the 1990s, when we were in our 30s, confided in me about the abuse and sought my advice. I was one of the only people she consulted. Allegations of sexual assault must always be taken seriously — always. Those who make allegations always deserve to be heard. At the same time, the person who is the subject of the allegations also deserves to be heard. Due process is a foundation of the American rule of law. Due process means listening to both sides. I’m not questioning that Dr. Ford may have been sexually assaulted by some person in some place at some time. But I have never done this — to her or to anyone. That’s not who I am. It is not who I was. I am innocent of this charge. I intend no ill will to Dr. Ford and her family. The other night Ashley and my daughter Liza said their prayers and little Liza, all of 10 years old, said to Ashley, “We should pray for the woman.” It’s a lot of wisdom from a 10-year-old. We mean — we mean no ill will.Judge Brett Kavanaugh, President Trump’s Supreme Court nominee, testified before the Senate Judiciary Committee and vehemently denied the sexual assault accusation made by Christine Blasey Ford.CreditCredit...Erin Schaff for The New York TimesJudge Kavanaugh’s turn in the hot seat: Angry and outragedAfter riveting testimony from Dr. Blasey, Judge Kavanaugh took his turn before the Senate Judiciary Committee to proclaim his innocence — and outrage.He opened the second half of the high-stakes hearing with a scorched-earth defense, denying he had ever sexually assaulted someone and denouncing a “frenzy” bent on destroying his nomination.“This confirmation process has become a national disgrace,” he said in an opening statement that he said he wrote himself on Wednesday. “The Constitution gives the Senate an important role in the confirmation process, but you have replaced ‘advice and consent’ with ‘search and destroy.’”[Read Brett Kavanaugh’s opening statement.]He condemned Democrats who he said had searched for reasons to sink him weeks before, only to turn to dark accusations. He pointed back at deep-seated liberal grudges, going back to the presidency of Bill Clinton and the victory of Mr. Trump as evidence of the animus. And he warned of dire consequences for the federal judiciary in decades ahead if nominees face a path like his.And when he recounted his daughters praying last night for Dr. Blasey, he broke down in tears.“My family and my name have been totally and permanently destroyed by vicious and false additional allegations,” he told the committee. But he vowed never to withdraw.“You may defeat me in the final vote, but you will never get me to quit,” he said. “Never.”Trump approved.On Wednesday, Mr. Trump said that he was going to be paying close attention to the committee’s proceedings and indicated that he was still willing to jettison Judge Kavanaugh if Thursday’s hearing did not go well.“They’re giving the women a major chance to speak,” Mr. Trump said at a news conference at the United Nations. “Now, it’s possible I’ll hear that and I’ll say, ‘Hey, I’m changing my mind.’”“I can always be convinced,” the president said shortly after.President Trump did not wait long to announce his opinion about Judge Kavanaugh’s perfomance. Immediately after the hearing adjourned, President Trump tweeted:Lindsey Graham exploded at DemocratsVideotranscripttranscriptGraham Accuses Democrats Of Trying to ‘Destroy’ Kavanaugh’s LifeDuring Judge Brett Kavanaugh’s hearing, Senator Lindsey Graham said that Democrats were part of an “unethical sham” in an effort to keep the Supreme Court seat vacant.What you want to do is destroy this guy’s life, hold this seat open and hope you win in 2020. You said that, not me. You’ve got nothing to apologize for. When you see Sotomayor and Kagan tell them that Lindsey said, “hello” — because I voted for them. I would never do to them what you’ve done to this guy. This is the most unethical sham since I’ve been in politics. And if you really wanted to know the truth you sure as hell wouldn’t have done what you’ve done to this guy. This is going to destroy the ability of good people to come forward because of this crap — your high school yearbook. You have interacted with professional women all your life, not one accusation. You’re supposed to be Bill Cosby when you’re a junior and senior in high school and all of a sudden you got over it. It’s been my understanding that if you drug women and rape them for two years in high school, you probably don’t stop.During Judge Brett Kavanaugh’s hearing, Senator Lindsey Graham said that Democrats were part of an “unethical sham” in an effort to keep the Supreme Court seat vacant.CreditCredit...Gabriella Demczuk for The New York TimesAfter sitting back all day while Ms. Mitchell questioned the witness, one Republican, Senator Lindsey Graham of South Carolina, exploded across the dais late on Thursday in an outburst unusual even for a highly partisan body.“Boy, you all want power,” he said, rising in his seat. “God, I hope you never get it. I hope the American people can see through this sham that you knew about it and you held it. You had no intention of protecting Dr. Ford. None. She’s as much of a victim as you.”Mr. Graham accused Democrats of trying to paint Judge Kavanaugh as “Bill Cosby when you’re a junior and senior in high school.” He said they were executing a cynical political ploy to deny Mr. Trump a Supreme Court seat — “the most unethical sham since I’ve been in politics.” And he said if they really wanted to get to the truth, Democrats would have come forward with Dr. Blasey’s account weeks before.“What you want to do is destroy this guy’s life, hold this seat open and hope you win in 2020,” he said.‘Brett’s assault on me drastically altered my life’: Dr. Blasey delivered an emotional opening statementDr. Blasey delivered her opening statement, at times through tears, at times resolute — but always with palpable emotion.[Read Dr. Blasey’s prepared opening statement here.]Speaking her first words in public, Dr. Blasey told senators in explicit detail, her voice breaking at times, of the night she said the future Judge Kavanaugh pinned her to the bed, tried to rip her clothes off and clapped his hand over her mouth as she screamed.“It was hard for me to breathe and I believed that Brett was going to accidentally kill me,” she said.Dr. Blasey also described the lasting impact of the attack, especially how he held his hand over her mouth: “Brett’s assault on me drastically altered my life.”And today, she said death threats and vile epithets have “rocked me to my core.”ImageCredit...Erin Schaff for The New York TimesThe main test for Dr. Blasey was whether she could appear credible before the senators, especially Republicans who have suggested that she is suffering from a case of mistaken identity — or that she has partisan motives.She addressed the latter issue directly.“I have been accused of acting out of partisan political motives,” she said. “Those who say that do not know me. I am a fiercely independent person, and I am no one’s pawn. My motivation in coming forward was to provide the facts about how Mr. Kavanaugh’s actions have damaged my life, so that you can take that into serious consideration as you make your decision about how to proceed.”[Her performance prompted an outpouring of support through GoFundMe campaigns.]She also poked holes in the mistaken identity theory when she described how she and Judge Kavanaugh met when their social circles intersected. She remembered his friends, including Mark Judge, who she said was in the room, while practicing swimming and diving at Columbia Country Club in suburban Maryland.“This is how I met Brett Kavanaugh, the boy who eventually assaulted me,” she said.Senator Charles E. Grassley of Iowa, the chairman of the Judiciary Committee, when asked if he found Dr. Blasey credible, answered: “Let me suggest this. I know that we’ve got to take what she says very seriously.”— Sheryl Gay StolbergHere are some of the standout quotes from the hearingsSenator Lindsey Graham:“To my Republican colleagues, if you vote no, you’re legitimizing the most despicable thing I have seen in my time in politics.”“I hate to say it because these have been my friends. But let me tell you, when it comes to this, you’re looking for a fair process, you came to the wrong town at the wrong time, my friend.”“If this is the new norm, you better watch out for your nominees.”Senator Richard Blumenthal:“If we agree on nothing else today, I hope on a bipartisan basis we can agree on how much courage it has taken for you to come forward.”Christine Blasey Ford:“Indelible in the hippocampus is the laughter — the uproarious laughter between the two, and their having fun at my expense.”“I am here today not because I want to be. I am terrified. I am here because I believe it is my civic duty to tell you what happened to me while Brett Kavanaugh and I were in high school.”“It was hard for me to breathe and I believed that Brett was going to accidentally kill me.”“I remember being on the street and feeling an enormous sense of relief that I escaped that house and that Brett and Mark were not coming outside after me.”Judge Brett M. Kavanaugh:“Such grotesque and obvious character assassination — if allowed to succeed — will dissuade competent and good people of all political persuasions from serving our country.”“This whole two-week effort has been a calculated and orchestrated political hit, fueled with apparent pent-up anger about President Trump and the 2016 election, fear that has been unfairly stoked about my judicial record, revenge on behalf of the Clintons and millions of dollars in money from outside left-wing opposition groups. This is a circus. The consequences will extend long past my nomination. The consequences will be with us for decades.”“I’m not questioning that Dr. Ford may have been sexually assaulted by some person, in some place, at some time, but I have never done that to her or to anyone.”“I ask you to judge me by the standard that you would want applied to your father, your husband, your brother or your son.”— Emily BaumgaertnerGone is the tone of contritionIn stark contrast to his subdued appearance this week on Fox News and contrite testimony released on Wednesday, Judge Kavanaugh was sharp and emotional — fulfilling a wish of Mr. Trump, who felt he was too robotic on television. He addressed directly the portrait Dr. Blasey painted of him as a drunken young man who tried to rape her and muffled her screams as she pleaded for help.“I liked beer. I still like beer. But I did not drink beer to the point of blacking out and I never sexually assaulted anyone.” Behaving like the lawyer he is, Judge Kavanaugh cited evidence — the testimony of other witnesses who said they have no memory of the assault, and his own “very precise” calendars from the summer of 1982 — in an effort to prove that he was never at a party with Dr. Blasey, and that the assault never happened.And he invoked his own sexual history, reiterating a comment he made on Fox: “I never had sexual intercourse or anything close to it throughout high school and for many years after that.”The question of blackoutsJudge Kavanaugh has said repeatedly in his testimony that he never blacked out from drinking. But an email he sent in 2001, released during his confirmation hearings, implied otherwise.At one point on Thursday, Ms. Mitchell asked the judge, “Did anyone ever tell you about something that happened in your presence that you didn’t remember during a time that you had been drinking?”“No,” Judge Kavanaugh said.In an email sent to friends from his work account in 2001, however, he wrote: “Excellent time. Apologies to all for missing Friday (good excuse), arriving late Saturday (weak excuse), and growing aggressive after blowing still another game of dice (don’t recall).”He does not mention drinking, and the email is from his adult life, not high school. Nonetheless, it could call into question his assertion that he never behaved in ways he did not remember the next day.ImageCredit...Pool photo by Saul LoebA combative witness in the face of questioningSenator Patrick J. Leahy, Democrat of Vermont, asked Judge Kavanaugh if he is the basis for a character in Mr. Judge’s book named “Bart O’Kavanaugh,” who drunkenly passed out in a car during Beach Week. Judge Kavanaugh’s response: accuse his questioner of “making fun” of Mr. Judge, who struggled with alcoholism.[Mark Judge’s Name Keeps Coming Up. Here’s What We Know.]Another heated exchange came when Senator Richard J. Durbin, Democrat of Illinois, repeatedly pressed Judge Kavanaugh to answer whether he would support an F.B.I. investigation into Dr. Blasey’s remarks. Judge Kavanaugh repeatedly demurred, saying he would support whatever the committee chose to do.“Personally, do you think that’s the best thing for us to do?” Mr. Durbin asked, exasperation seeping into his voice.Judge Kavanaugh seemed to roll his eyes and stayed quiet for a long pause.“You won’t answer?” Mr. Durbin asked.“This thing was held when it could have been presented in the ordinary way,” Judge Kavanaugh answered. “It could have been held and handled confidentially.” He added, “These calls wouldn’t have destroyed my family.”A curious weekend defenseIn saying that he could not have sexually assaulted Dr. Blasey, Judge Kavanaugh repeatedly referred to his calendar entries and said he was out of town virtually every weekend in the summer of 1982 and was too busy working during the week.But that was a curious defense. His calendar entries show plenty of socializing during the week that summer — and virtually no work. He went for “skis” — presumably “brewskis” — with two of the friends that Dr. Blasey said were at the disputed gathering on Thursday, July 1. On Wednesday, July 7, he has a notation “Columbia.” That could be Columbia University — later that month he wrote “Interview Brown” and “Interview Yale.” It could also be Columbia Country Club, where Dr. Blasey went for much of the summer to swim and dive.VideotranscripttranscriptA Key Figure in the Kavanaugh Allegations: Who Is Mark Judge?Selfie videos, male sexuality and filming young women. These themes appear in the videos and writings of Mark Judge that The New York Times reviewed, revealing a partial portrait of Judge Brett Kavanaugh’s high school friend.“Would you like Mark Judge to be interviewed?” “That would be my preference. I’m not sure it’s really up to me, but ...” Mark Judge. It’s a name that keeps coming up in the Kavanaugh hearings. “Man, the old gym.” So just who is Judge? “And here’s something very interesting. This is the JUG room, Justice Under God detention, spent a lot of time in there. It’s locked right now but ...” In this self-shot video posted online, he’s walking around the campus of Georgetown Prep, the school he attended years earlier with Supreme Court nominee Brett Kavanaugh. “And I know they’ve asked me not to film here. They’ve told me not to film here. They’ve explained the legal ramifications of filming here. But, this is part of my past and these videos are part of my history, so — bring on the lawyers.” Christine Blasey Ford says Judge was in the room when, she alleges, Kavanaugh sexually assaulted her in the early 1980s. “She says that you tried to take off her clothes and she believes that you would have raped her if Mark Judge hadn’t climbed on top and everyone tumbled to the floor. And then she had an opportunity to get away.” Judge and Kavanaugh were close friends in high school and both have denied the episode occurred. Additional women have since come forward with accusations. “We’re starting to learn more about Mark Judge.” Judge is now a key figure in the Kavanaugh hearings. In other self-shot videos, Judge discusses things like spirituality and pop culture. “It’s about mysticism.” He also produced numerous short films. Many reviewed by The Times seemed like mood pieces. They don’t have dialogue, and almost all feature young-looking women, some almost naked, posing or staring at the camera. “I’ve been a journalist for — since college, and ...” Judge is a freelance writer, author and filmmaker. He has contributed to conservative news sites like The Daily Caller and The Weekly Standard, but also publications like The Washington Post and The New York Times. “I mean, I’m no Andrew Breitbart, but he is an inspiration.” He has written about topics ranging from culture and conservatism to masturbation and male sexuality. He has also written a number of books, including “Wasted: Tales of a Gen-X Drunk,” where he recounts drinking in high school and includes a character named Bart O’Kavanaugh, a suspected reference to Brett Kavanaugh. After the accusations surfaced, Mark Judge’s social media accounts appeared to be taken offline, and he has remained out of the public eye.Selfie videos, male sexuality and filming young women. These themes appear in the videos and writings of Mark Judge that The New York Times reviewed, revealing a partial portrait of Judge Brett Kavanaugh’s high school friend.CreditCredit...Gabriel Pogrund/The Washington Post, via Getty ImagesAbout that yearbook entryTucked into Judge Kavanaugh’s emotional opening statement was a lament that a high school friend of his — Renate Schroeder Dolphin, though he did not name her — has been caught up in the frenzy surrounding his nomination.In his high school yearbook, Judge Kavanaugh and some of his friends described themselves as “Renate Alumnius,” a mysterious reference that two of his classmates said was unsubstantiated boasting about the football players’ sexual conquests. Ms. Dolphin, in a statement to The New York Times, called it “horrible hurtful and simply untrue.”Judge Kavanaugh told the panel that the reference had nothing to do with sex, but that he had gone to dances with Ms. Dolphin.“That was meant to show affection,” he told the panel. “In this circus, the term is related to sex. It’s not related to sex. The woman herself noted to the media on the record, she and I never had any sexual interaction at all. So sorry to her for that yearbook reference. This may sound a bit trivial, given all that we’re here for, but one thing I want to try to make sure of in the future is my friendship with her. She was and is a great person.”That isn’t how a schoolmate of Judge Kavanaugh’s described it.“They were very disrespectful, at least verbally, with Renate,” said Sean Hagan, a Georgetown Prep student at the time, referring to Judge Kavanaugh and his football teammates. “I can’t express how disgusted I am with them, then and now.”VideotranscripttranscriptThe Sexual Assault Allegations Against KavanaughThere are multiple women who have accused Judge Brett Kavanaugh of sexual misconduct. Here are their allegations and his responses.President Trump’s pick for the Supreme Court, Judge Brett Kavanaugh, is facing sexual assault allegations by multiple women. Here are the accusations and how Kavanaugh has responded. Dr. Christine Blasey Ford said Kavanaugh assaulted her at a party in high school. According to her, he was drunk when he pushed her into a bedroom, started grinding his body against hers and tried to undress her. She said he tried to muffle her screams by covering her mouth with his hand. In an interview with Fox News, Kavanaugh responded. “I’ve never sexually assaulted anyone, not in in high school, not ever.” The second accuser is Deborah Ramirez. She and Kavanaugh were both students at Yale when, she said, he exposed himself to her. Ramirez said he held his penis near her face during a drinking game in a dorm room. When she pushed him away, she said, she accidentally touched it and saw Kavanaugh laughing and pulling up his pants. Kavanaugh reacted to the allegations, saying: “I never did any such thing. Never did any such thing.” The third accuser is Julie Swetnik. She said she met Kavanaugh on several occasions at house parties between 1981 and 1983. At these parties, Swetnik said, she saw a drunk Kavanaugh participate in a range of aggressive behaviors toward women: from pressing and grinding his body on them to trying to remove their clothes. She also alleges that Kavanaugh was there when what she described as “gang” rapes took place. Swetnik says she was raped by a group of men at one of these parties in 1982. Swetnik is also the first accuser to give an on-camera interview to the media. She spoke to Showtime on Sept. 26: “This is something that occurred a long time ago and it’s not that I just thought about it. It’s been on my mind ever since the occurrences.” In a statement released by the White House, Kavanaugh called the accusations “ridiculous” and “from ‘The Twilight Zone’” and said it never happened. A fourth anonymous accusation was made in a letter sent to Senator Cory Gardner of Colorado. The author of the letter says her daughter saw a drunk Kavanaugh aggressively push a woman he was dating against a wall outside a bar in 1998. Kavanaugh’s response: “This is crazytown. It’s a smear campaign.”There are multiple women who have accused Judge Brett Kavanaugh of sexual misconduct. Here are their allegations and his responses.CreditCredit...T.J. Kirkpatrick for The New York TimesA case of mistaken identity? Dr. Blasey: No chance.Shadowy theories that Dr. Blasey could have mistaken the identity of her assailant have bounced through Washington’s conservative circles for days. And on Wednesday night, just hours before the hearing, Republicans on the Judiciary Committee released a document detailing their investigative work that showed they had interviewed two separate men who said they believed that they, not Judge Kavanaugh, assaulted Dr. Blasey. Even Judge Kavanaugh has speculated that perhaps Dr. Blasey was misremembering the incident.VideotranscripttranscriptKavanaugh’s Assertions About His Past Face ScrutinyDuring a Fox News interview on Sunday, the Supreme Court nominee Judge Brett M. Kavanaugh rebutted claims of sexual abuse. But some are questioning his characterization of his high school and college years.“I am looking for a fair process, a process where I can defend my integrity ...” “If such a thing had happened, it would have been the talk of campus. The women I knew in college and the men I knew in college say it’s inconceivable that I could have done such a thing.” “I’ve never sexually assaulted anyone. I did not have sexual intercourse or anything close to sexual intercourse in high school or for many years thereafter.” “Was there ever a time that you drank so much that you couldn’t remember what happened the night before?” “No. That never happened.” “And yes, there were parties. And the drinking age was 18. And yes, the seniors were legal and had beer there. And yes, people might have had too many beers on occasion.” “I’ve always treated women with dignity and respect. Listen to the people who’ve known me best through my whole life, the women who’ve known me since high school.”During a Fox News interview on Sunday, the Supreme Court nominee Judge Brett M. Kavanaugh rebutted claims of sexual abuse. But some are questioning his characterization of his high school and college years.CreditCredit...Jacquelyn Martin/Associated PressAs other senators sought to clarify Dr. Blasey’s memory, Mr. Durbin took the question head on.“I am asking you to address this new defense of mistaken identity directly,” he said. “Dr. Ford, with what degree of certainly do you believe Judge Kavanaugh assaulted you?”Dr. Blasey, who sometimes uses her married name, Ford, responded unequivocally.“One hundred percent,” Dr. Blasey said.— Nicholas FandosRepublicans remain unmovedVideotranscripttranscriptGraham Says He’s ‘Really Upset’ After Christine Blasey Ford’s TestimonySenator Lindsey Graham criticized Democrats after Christine Blasey Ford testified about her sexual assault accusation against Judge Brett Kavanaugh.I’m really upset that they knew about this in August and never told anybody. I’m really upset that Dianne Feinstein believed this was a credible allegation that you wouldn’t do — Mr. — Judge Kavanaugh the service of saying, “I’ve got this. What’s your side of the story?” All I can say is that we’re 40-something days away from the election, and their goal, not Ms. Ford’s goal, is to delay this past the midterms, so they can win the Senate and never allow Trump to fill this seat. The friends on the other side set it up to be just the way it is. I feel ambushed as the majority. We’re going to hear from Mr. Kavanaugh — Judge Kavanaugh — and I’ve been a judge, a prosecutor and a defense attorney, and here’s what I’ll tell you: When it comes to where it happened, I still don’t know. I don’t know when it happened. She said she’s 100 percent certain it did happen. I bet you Judge Kavanaugh will say, “I’m 100 percent sure I didn’t do it.” And that’s the facts I’m left with. A nice lady who has come forward to tell a hard story that’s uncorroborated, and this is enough. God help anybody else who gets nominated. I’m not going to reward people for playing a political game, I think with her life. She is just as much a victim of this as I think Brett Kavanaugh.Senator Lindsey Graham criticized Democrats after Christine Blasey Ford testified about her sexual assault accusation against Judge Brett Kavanaugh.CreditCredit...Erin Schaff for The New York TimesAfter watching a morning of grueling testimony in silence, senior Republican senators said loudly that they stood by Judge Kavanaugh, with one Republican on the committee saying they had been “ambushed” by the Democrats and another proclaiming that he is ready to vote.“All I can say is that we are 40-something days from the election and their only goal, not Ms. Ford’s goal, is to delay this past the midterms so they can win the Senate and never allow Trump to fill this seat,” Mr. Graham, Republican of South Carolina, told reporters in an angry monologue just outside the hearing room. “I believe that now more than ever.”Mr. Graham said he was certain that Judge Kavanaugh would deliver an equally unequivocal denial of her account, and senators would be left where they began the day.“That’s the facts I’m left with: A nice lady who has come forward to tell a hard story that’s uncorroborated,” Mr. Graham said. If “this is enough, God help anybody else who gets nominated,” he added. “Based on what I heard today, you could not get a search warrant or an arrest warrant.”Senator John Cornyn of Texas, the chamber’s No. 2 Republican and another member of the committee, said senators were in much the same place they started the day.“You need more than an accusation for evidence,” he said. “You need corroboration and that’s what’s missing here.”Senator Ron Johnson, Republican of Wisconsin, was asked what he thought of Dr. Blasey’s testimony. He replied, “I think most people listen to Professor Ford and think that she believes what she is saying.”Asked if he believes her, Mr. Johnson replied: “I think she believes what she is saying.”But those senators were never thought to hold votes that were in play. Senators who do, including the Republicans Susan Collins of Maine, Lisa Murkowski of Alaska and Jeff Flake of Arizona, avoided reporters into the afternoon and said they would have nothing to say before the hearing with Judge Kavanaugh concluded. Privately, Democrats speculated that the consistency and forcefulness of Dr. Blasey’s testimony would put these senators in an unenviable bind with an election approaching.To that, Mr. Graham delivered a threat: “If this is the new norm, you better watch out for your nominees.”— Catie EdmondsonDemocrats turn the tables on the G.O.P.With Republicans deferring to Ms. Mitchell, Democrats used their allotted time to make broad political points about the integrity of Republicans’ investigation, the treatment of the victims of sexual violence in the United States and Dr. Blasey in particular.In one poignant exchange, Senator Richard Blumenthal, Democrat of Connecticut, reached for a quote from a colleague across the dais, Mr. Graham. Rather than use Mr. Graham’s statements dismissing the accusations against Judge Kavanaugh, Mr. Blumenthal began reading from a passage from the senator’s 2015 book, “My Story.”“I learned how much unexpected courage from a deep and hidden place it takes for a rape victim or sexually abused child to testify against their assailant,” Mr. Graham wrote of his time as a prosecutor and Mr. Blumenthal read Thursday. “I learned how much courage from a deep and hidden place it takes for a rape victim or sexually abused child to testify against their assailant.”Mr. Blumenthal then said, “If we agree on nothing else today, I hope on a bipartisan basis we can agree on how much courage it has taken for you to come forward.”[Women speak out on their own experiences of sexual assault.]The contrast to Mr. Graham then and Mr. Graham now was striking. On Wednesday, he said his support for Judge Kavanaugh has not dimmed, concluding, “I don’t think he’s Bill Cosby.”Thoughts from the MidwestDr. Blasey’s testimony inspired at least one woman to call into C-Span3 to share their own story of sexual abuse.The caller, who identified herself as Brenda from Valley Park, Mo., tearfully told the host that Dr. Blasey’s appearance had caused an old trauma from her childhood to re-emerge.“I’m a 76-year-old woman who was sexually molested in the second grade,” she said. She said her attacker had been a boy in seventh grade at her school.“This brings back so much pain,” she said. “I thought I was over it, but it is not. You will never forget it. You get confused and you don’t understand it, but you never forget what happened to you.”But not every caller had the same reaction as Brenda. A viewer named James, from Princeton, Ind., said Dr. Blasey was “lying like a dog.”James, who said he was “not a big Trump supporter,” said he found much of Dr. Blasey’s testimony to be inconsistent.“I wish that dang prosecutor had said, ‘Listen, I need more than five minutes and I could take her to the woodshed,’” he said.An unusually clinical witnessDuring the questioning, Dr. Blasey’s background as a professor of psychology affiliated with Stanford University and Palo Alto University shaped her answers to questions. For example, describing the lingering consequences of having been attacked as a teenager, she invoked an obscure term — sequela — which refers to aftereffects of a disease or traumatic incident.Asked how she remembers that it was Judge Kavanaugh and not some other person who attacked her, she answered clinically with a description of how memories of traumatic events form in the brain: “Just basic memory functions and also just the level of norepinephrine and the epinephrine in the brain that sort of, as you know, encodes — that neurotransmitter that codes memories into the hippocampus and so the trauma-related experience is locked there whereas other details kind of drift.”Senator Dianne Feinstein of California, the ranking Democrat on the committee, responded: “So what you are telling us is this could not be a case of mistaken identity.”“Absolutely not,” Dr. Blasey replied.And, a bit later, asked what her strongest memory was, something she could not forget, she replied: “Indelible into the hippocampus is the laughter — the uproarious laughter between the two, and their having fun at my expense.”— Charlie SavageImageCredit...Erin Schaff for The New York TimesAn ineffective format for Judge Kavanaugh’s defenseRepublicans said they chose to turn over their questions to Ms. Mitchell, a sex crimes prosecutor, so that they could have a more targeted, coherent hearing. But as her questioning began, the arrangement appeared more halting and cumbersome than efficient, as it resembled a courtroom trial more than a typical Senate hearing.The juxtaposition was jarring, particularly with Democrats using their time to cut straight to the heart of Dr. Blasey’s story. After Dr. Blasey’s opening statement gripped the hearing room, Ms. Mitchell immediately dug into granular details, asking the witness to read and correct messages she exchanged with a reporter at The Washington Post and a letter shared with Ms. Feinstein.“The first two texts were sent by you on July 6, is that correct?” Ms. Mitchell asked. Dr. Blasey spent long moments reading printouts of both and began to work through technical corrections.And with only five-minute blocks at her disposal, Ms. Mitchell was repeatedly cut off mid-questioning.“Miss Mitchell, I don’t know whether this is fair to interrupt. I want to keep people within five minutes,” Mr. Grassley said. “Is that a major problem for you in the middle of a question?”Then again, Republicans on the committee may have been no better. During the lunch break, Senator Orrin G. Hatch of Utah, one of the three senators on the committee who were there for the Clarence Thomas-Anita F. Hill hearings, told reporters, “I don’t think she’s uncredible. I think she’s an attractive, good witness.”Asked what he meant by “attractive,” he said, “In other words, she’s pleasing.”— Nicholas FandosVideotranscripttranscriptAnita Hill Hearing: An All-Male Panel With an AgendaIn 1991, senators questioned Anita Hill about her accusation that Clarence Thomas, a nominee to the Supreme Court, had sexually harassed her. The questions and remarks that lawmakers made during the hearings are now viewed as a low point for the Senate.“Can you tell me what incidences occurred — of the ones you’ve described to us — occurred in his office?” “The incident with regard to the Coke can — that’s spelled out in my statement.” “Would you describe it once again for me, please?” “The incident involved his going to his desk — getting up from a work table — going to his desk, looking at this can and saying, ‘Who put pubic hair on my Coke?’” “Are there any other incidences that occurred in his office?” “I recall at least one instance, in his office at the E.E.O.C., where he discussed some pornographic material.” “What was the content of what he said?” “Well, this was a reference to an individual who had a very large penis and he used the name that he had been referred to in the pornographic material. Um —” “Do you recall what it was?” “Yes, I do. The name that was referred to was Long Dong Silver.” “You testified this morning in response to Senator Biden that the most embarrassing question involved — this is not too bad — women’s large breasts. That’s a word we use all the time. That was the most embarrassing aspect of what Judge Thomas had said to you?” “No, the most embarrassing aspect was his description of the acts of these individuals, these women. The acts that those particular people would engage in. It wasn’t just the breasts. It was the continuation of his story about what happened in those films with the people with this characteristic — physical characteristic —” “With the physical characteristic of —” “The large breasts.” “Well, in your statement to the F.B.I., you did refer to the films. But there’s no reference to the physical characteristic you describe. I don’t want to attach too much weight to it. But I had thought you said that the aspect of the large breasts was the aspect that concerned you. And that was missing from the statement to the F.B.I.” “I’ve been — I have been misunderstood.” “Are you a scorned woman?” “No.” “Are you a zealot, civil-rights believer — that progress will be turned back If Clarence Thomas goes on the court?” “I — no, I don’t. I think that I have my opinion. But I don’t think that progress will be turned back. I think that civil rights will prevail no matter what happens with the court.” “Do you have a militant attitude relative to the area of civil rights?” “No, I don’t have a militant attitude.” “Do you have a martyr complex?” “No I don’t.” “Well, do you see that coming out of this, that you can be a hero in the civil-rights movement?” “I do not have that kind of complex. I don’t like all of the attention that I’m getting. I don’t — I would not — even if I liked the attention, I would not lie to get attention.” “Why in God’s name — when he left his position of power or status or authority over you — and you left it in 1983 — why in God’s name would you ever speak to a man like that the rest of your life?” “That’s a very good question. And I’m sure that I can not answer that to your satisfaction. That is one of the things that I have tried to do today. I have suggested that I was afraid of retaliation. I was afraid of damage to my professional life. And I believe that you have to understand that this response — and that, and that’s one of the things that I have come to understand about harassment, that this response, this kind of response, is not atypical. And I can’t explain. It takes an expert in psychology to explain how that can happen. But it can happen because it happened to me.”In 1991, senators questioned Anita Hill about her accusation that Clarence Thomas, a nominee to the Supreme Court, had sexually harassed her. The questions and remarks that lawmakers made during the hearings are now viewed as a low point for the Senate.CreditCredit...Jennifer Law/Agence France-Presse — Getty ImagesKavanaugh ruled polygraphs are “an important law enforcement tool”As the hearing neared a close, Senator Kamala Harris, Democrat of California, asked Judge Kavanaugh whether he would submit to a polygraph test the way Dr. Blasey did. He said he would, though it would be inadmissable in court and not much use.But Judge Kavanaugh has written that polygraph tests do have a role to play in law enforcement. In a 2016 opinion for a unanimous three-judge panel of his court, he ruled that the Defense Department could withhold reports concerning the effectiveness of polygraph tests in response to request under the Freedom of Information Act.The studies were exempt from disclosure, Judge Kavanaugh wrote, because they concerned “an important law enforcement tool.”“The government has satisfactorily explained how polygraph examinations serve law enforcement purposes,” he wrote. “It has also explained how the reports assessing the efficacy of those examinations and identifying needed fixes likewise serve law enforcement purposes. Put simply, the reports help ensure that law enforcement officers optimally use an important law enforcement tool.”— Adam LiptakWomen are watching: “Credible”A group of 10 women watching the hearings in Bangor, Me. — the home state of Senator Susan Collins, whose vote will be pivotal in Judge Kavanaugh’s confirmation, started out suspicious that Dr. Blasey had partisan motivations; some declared they believed her, while others said they were determined to approach the hearings with an open mind.Jean Barry, a high school science teacher and a firm opponent of abortion rights, began listening to the hearing concerned about the timing of the accusations.“So far she seems somewhat credible, like she’s telling us something that happened from her heart,” she said.Emily McLaughlin, a sophomore at the University of Maine who was a treasurer for the college Republicans, said she believed Dr. Blasey, but wanted to hear from Judge Kavanaugh and wondered, too, whether she just had one beer.During the short recess, the group had a lively back and forth. While most believed Dr. Blasey, some were waiting to hear further questioning and believed it was important to hear Judge Kavanaugh. They gathered again around the television as the hearings resumed, listening intently.— Susan ChiraFeinstein: The issue is Kavanaugh’s honesty now, not just what happened thenAt the conclusion of her opening remarks, Ms. Feinstein said that the issue for the Senate to decide is not just whether it is true that Judge Kavanaugh, as a teenager, sexually assaulted Dr. Blasey, but also whether Judge Kavanaugh is being honest today about his past behavior.“We are here for one reason, to determine whether Judge Kavanaugh should be elevated to one of the most powerful positions in our country,” she said. “This is not a trial of Dr. Ford. It’s a job interview for Judge Kavanaugh. Is Brett Kavanaugh who we want on the most prestigious court in our country? Is he the best we can do?”Even before Dr. Blasey had come forward, Democrats had attacked Judge Kavanaugh’s credibility, arguing that Bush White House emails had shown that he had misled the Senate when he came before it as an appeals court nominee in 2004 and 2006, in distancing himself from various Bush-era controversies including work on other disputed appeals court nominees and Senate Republican staffers’ then-secret infiltration of internal Democratic computer files to learn which nominees they were likely to try to block and with what tactics.— Charlie Savage