WASHINGTON - The second woman who came forward with sexual assault allegations against Supreme Court nominee Brett Kavanaugh has been contacted by the FBI, her attorney told USA TODAY. Deborah Ramirez claimed Kavanaugh exposed himself to her and shoved his penis in her face at a dorm party while they were students at Yale University. Her allegations first appeared in the New Yorker. Kavanaugh denies these allegations and others that have been lodged against him. Her attorney, John Clune, said Ramirez is cooperating with the FBI as agents investigate the batch of allegations in Kavanaugh's reopened background check. "We can confirm the FBI has reached out to interview Ms. Ramirez and she has agreed to cooperate with their investigation," Clune said in a statement. "Out of respect for the integrity of the process, we will have no further comment at this time." The FBI investigation was ordered by President Donald Trump Friday after Sen. Jeff Flake, R-AZ., a key deciding vote for Republicans, said he would only confirm Kavanaugh in the if the investigation was done. The FBI was given a week to reexamine Kavanaugh's background and investigate the batch of claims, but even in that small window former FBI officials said agents could reach a quick resolution. "They could knock this thing out in a couple of days," said Jim Davis, a former agent who participated in at least 50 such background inquiries. "The great and beautiful thing about the FBI is that it can apply incredible resources to whatever the issue requires."Saturday was a waiting game for some of those who accused Kavanaugh. Michael Avenatti, a lawyer for Julie Swetnick, said federal authorities hadn't reached out to them but his client was more than willing to cooperate. "This investigation is only as good as the scope," Avenatti told USA TODAY. "If the scope doesn't include my client and the others who have accused Mr. Kavanaugh how can it be a credible investigation?"President Donald Trump told reporters Saturday as he left for a rally in West Virginia that FBI agents have "full reign" over the investigation. "The FBI, as you know, is all over talking to everybody," he said. "They have free reign. They're going to do whatever they have to do. Whatever it is they do, they'll be doing things that we've never even thought of." Trump said the investigation could be "a blessing in disguise." He said Kavanaugh is a "great judge" and he hopes "everything works out great." Since the announcement of the investigation, others connected to the accusations have offered a willingness to help agents in their examination of Kavanaugh. Lynne Brookes, a classmate of Ramirez who has said repeatedly that Kavanaugh's denials about excessive drinking were lies, told USA TODAY she would be willing to cooperate with the FBI's investigation. "I don’t have anything to hide. I’m not telling things that aren't true." Brookes said. More: Looking ahead to what's next for the Supreme Court nomineeMore: GOP senator suggests Christine Blasey Ford may have 'false memories'More: Jeff Flake has managed to frustrate all sides inpast 2 yearsElizabeth Swisher, a Seattle doctor who was roommates with Ramirez at Yale, said Saturday that she is glad the FBI will look into the allegations.“I think every allegation needs to be investigated, not only for the truth of the allegation but for the truth of his response,” she said.Swisher, a Democrat, said she did witness Kavanaugh “stumbling” drunk and “slurring” and she doesn’t believe his testimony Thursday that he had never blacked out from drinking. A lawyer for Leland Ingham Keyser, a friend of Christine Blasey Ford, said she will "cooperate fully" with an FBI investigation. Ford was the first who lodged allegations about Kavanaugh. She testified before the Senate Judiciary Committee on Thursday."Ms. Keyser does not refute Dr. Ford's account, and she has already told the press that she believes Dr. Ford's account," Keyser's attorney, Howard Walsh, wrote in the letter, which was sent to the committee overnight Friday. "However, the simple and unchangeable truth is that she is unable to corroborate it because she has no recollection of the incident in question."It's unclear who will be called upon by the FBI. The White House says that's up to the Senate and the bureau. "The scope and duration has been set by the Senate," said Raj Shah, a White House spokesman. "The White House is letting the FBI agents do what they are trained to do."Contributing: Donovan Slack 