4:17 p.m. ET, October 6, 2018Our live coverage of the Senate's final vote on Brett Kavanaugh has ended. Go here or scroll through the posts below to see how the final vote unfolded. You can also visit CNN Politics for more on Kavanaugh.4:06 p.m. ET, October 6, 2018Senate confirms Kavanaugh to the Supreme CourtFrom CNN's Ted BarrettThe Senate voted Saturday to confirm Brett Kavanaugh to be an associate justice of the Supreme Court, following a contentious confirmation battle.The vote total was 50-48.The vote took place as protesters against the nomination interrupted the vote and as those for and against Kavanaugh marched on the Capitol grounds and at the Supreme Court.Sen. Joe Manchin of West Virginia was the only Democrat to vote for the nominee. Sen. Lisa Murkowski of Alaska was the only Republican who opposed the nomination. 4:01 p.m. ET, October 6, 2018Protesters are forcibly removed from the Senate Gallery during voteFrom CNN's Ashley Killough, Phil Mattingly and Jeremy HerbProtesters shouted at the top of their lungs and yelled “I will not consent” as they were forcibly removed from the Senate Gallery during the final confirmation vote for Brett Kavanaugh. At least seven protesters were removed. They continued to scream as they were pulled into the hallway.As the vote started, one by one protesters stood in different sections and started shouting, most with their fists raised. One protester had to be carried out by her arms and legs.4:02 p.m. ET, October 6, 2018Roll call has started on Kavanaugh nomination voteRoll call has started on Brett Kavanaugh's nomination vote. Protesters could be heard shouting as the final vote was about to begin. Vice President Mike Pence is presiding over the vote.Watch the moment:3:44 p.m. ET, October 6, 2018Protesters stage sit-in at Supreme CourtFrom CNN's Miguel Marquez and Sonia MogheProtesters staged a sit-in Saturday in front of the US Supreme Court ahead of Brett Kavanaugh's final confirmation vote.They chanted “our streets” and expressed support for survivors as they sat in the middle of street.US Capitol Police tried to control the sit-in, but eventually backed off.3:33 p.m. ET, October 6, 2018This is what protests look like in DC todayProtesters occupy the center steps of the East Front of the US Capitol after breaking through barricades to demonstrate against the confirmation of Supreme Court nominee Judge Brett Kavanaugh on Oct. 6, 2018 in Washington, DC.Demonstrators descended on Capitol Hill and the Supreme Court Saturday to protest ahead of the Senate's final confirmation vote on Judge Brett Kavanaugh.Police arrested demonstrators who swarmed the steps of the Capitol to protest Kavanaugh's confirmation.Here's what it looked like:3:29 p.m. ET, October 6, 2018Cornyn: "This has not been the Senate's finest hour"From CNN's Laurie UreRepublican Sen. John Cornyn, speaking to reporters Saturday ahead of the final vote, said the process surrounding Brett Kavanaugh's confirmation was not "the Senate’s finest hour.""This has not been the Senate’s finest hour, to be sure," Cornyn said. "We need to find some way to, after the dust settles, to figure out a better path forward. Nobody involved, whether it’s Dr. (Christine Blasey) Ford or Judge Kavanaugh, deserved to be treated the way they were treated."He also addressed protests at the Capitol and Supreme Court."Protesters are great. I mean, that’s the American way. But the assaulting people, the inciting people, inciting other people who may be listening to perhaps even violence is dangerous. So I think we need to take a step back and try to learn from this and do better," Cornyn said.3:29 p.m. ET, October 6, 2018Why some protesters won't just get a fineFrom CNN's Kristin WilsonAny protesters, who was arrested both Friday and Saturday, will not be allowed to simply pay a fine and be released again, Capitol Police told CNN. Instead, they will be taken to central booking, where they will remain until Tuesday (since Monday is a federal holiday). This also applies to any protesters who disturb the Senate floor from the gallery.Anyone who was arrested for the first time Saturday will be allowed to pay a fine and be released. 2:19 p.m. ET, October 6, 2018Police arrest protesters on the steps of the CapitolFrom CNN's Ross Levitt and Gisela CrespoPolice arrested demonstrators who stood on the steps of the Capitol on Saturday and protested the nomination of Judge Brett Kavanaugh.As police detained the protesters, people chanted “Arrest sexual predators; not protesters.”Teresa Blair shot this video of Capitol Police officers detaining demonstrators as others chanted “The whole world’s watching” and “Vote them out.”Watch that moment: