          President Trump returns to Andrews Air Force Base in Maryland on Saturday after speaking in Indiana. (Andrew Harnik / AP)     President Trump returned on Monday to excoriating the free press as “the true Enemy of the People” even as CNN announced it had received another suspected bomb in the mail.   “There is great anger in our Country caused in part by inaccurate, and even fraudulent, reporting of the news,” Trump tweeted shortly after dawn. “The Fake News Media, the true Enemy of the People, must stop the open & obvious hostility & report the news accurately & fairly. That will do much to put out the flame of Anger and Outrage and we will then be able to bring all sides together in Peace and Harmony. Fake News Must end!”  A White House spokeswoman did not return a request for comment on what news coverage in particular the President considers “fake.”   Hours after Trump’s incendiary tweet, CNN President Jeff Zucker announced his outlet had received another suspected package bomb at its offices in Atlanta.  Photos of the suspected explosive posted online resemble devices that authorities say were sent to CNN’s Midtown newsroom and several high-profile Democrats last week by Cesar Sayoc, a Trump supporter who echoed the President’s rhetoric in social media posts attacking the press and political opponents.   Trump has refused to acknowledge that his divisive rhetoric likely influenced Sayoc, instead pointing fingers at news organizations.  Democrats pushed back against Trump’s latest tirade.  “This is, for all practical purposes, a call for more violence against the press,” Sen. Chris Murphy (D-Conn.) tweeted. “My god....what is happening???”   The President made similar victim-blaming remarks after authorities said a Pittsburgh man with well-documented white supremacist views stormed into the Tree of Life synagogue, reportedly shouted “all Jews must die” and fatally shot 11 congregants, making it the deadliest attack on Jewish people in U.S. history.  “If they had protection inside, the results would have been far better,” Trump told reporters after the Saturday massacre.  At a briefing at the White House on Monday afternoon, press secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders claimed Trump is “not placing blame” in either the mail bombings or the synagogue attack.  Pressed on Trump’s repeated attacks on the media, Sanders stumbled a bit, claiming the President is “talking about the growing amount of fake news” but refusing to specify what exactly he considers “fake” and whom in particular he considers the “enemy.”  “Those individuals know who they are,” Sanders said.   CNN  Sarah Huckabee Sanders  Donald Trump  Cesar Altieri Sayoc  Chris Murphy        