The CaucusWith ’08 on Their Minds, Democrats Gather in CharlotteCredit...Stephen Crowley/The New York TimesSept. 2, 2012CHARLOTTE, N.C. — Democrats will gather here on Tuesday to nominate President Obama for a second term in the White House, setting in motion the final sprint to Election Day.Mr. Obama’s 2012 Democratic National Convention will be weighed down by four tough years in Washington — political battles won and lost; wars fought overseas; relationships frayed; promises kept and broken.The challenge for the president and his supporters this week will be to duplicate the optimism and energy that fueled his first convention four years ago, a coronation that ended in a huge rally with fireworks in Denver.Here are five things Democrats need to do in Charlotte:ATTACK ROMNEY Mitt Romney tried to do two things in last week at the Republican convention in Tampa, Fla.: build a case against Mr. Obama’s economic policies and put forth a picture of a diverse party that is acceptable to a broad electorate.In three days here, Mr. Obama’s team will seek to counter both. Democratic speeches will accuse Mr. Romney and his running mate, Representative Paul D. Ryan of Wisconsin, of favoring the rich over the middle class. Democrats will argue that progress has been made, and that Republicans would turn back the clock.At the same time, the convention will try to portray Mr. Romney as a threat to women, immigrants, the poor and minorities. Democrats will argue that these groups would suffer under a Romney-Ryan administration.REASSURE ON THE ECONOMY The day after Mr. Obama’s convention ends, the federal government will issue the monthly jobs report for August. If history is any guide, it will show anemic employment growth, at best.Republicans will pounce, as they have every month. So Mr. Obama’s convention must build a strong enough case for his economic policies to overcome a negative report at the beginning of the fall campaign.ImageCredit...Doug Mills/The New York TimesThe advantage for Mr. Obama is that he may never again have a bigger audience than the one he will have on Thursday night. If he gives a well-received address, the chatter on Friday morning could diminish the impact of a mediocre jobs report.AVOID MISTAKES If Mr. Obama’s political team was watching the Republican National Convention (and they were), they could hardly have missed the Clint Eastwood mess.The actor’s odd, rambling remarks were a reminder that mistakes matter. Mr. Romney’s well-received remarks on Thursday were hardly the main topic of Twitter or conversations on television the next morning.Journalists deplore the slick, packaged, choreographed productions that modern conventions have become, and they are waiting to pounce when something goes wrong. Democrats will have to be disciplined to avoid a gaffe or mistake.FIRE UP THE BASE Mr. Obama’s rallies this summer have drawn smaller crowds than four years ago. The diminished enthusiasm of his supporters may provide an opening that Republicans can exploit, but there is nothing like a party to rouse the base. Look for speeches aimed directly at the Democratic constituencies: women, labor unions, college students, blacks, Hispanics and gay people. Huge turnout from these groups could assure Mr. Obama’s re-election.RECAPTURE HOPE In his acceptance speech four years ago, Mr. Obama promised a new kind of politics, shorn of red-blue partisanship. As the cameras panned across the huge crowd, the faces revealed an eagerness for something new and different.But Mr. Obama’s presidency has hardly met that expectation. His White House has gotten bogged down in an even deeper partisan morass that has ground political progress to a halt.One three-day convention cannot change all that. But Democrats are going to try to use the speeches — capped off by Mr. Obama’s — to remind supporters of the passion and promise they felt four years ago.If Mr. Obama can recapture some of that sense of “hope and change,” he may begin the final nine weeks of the campaign in a better spot.