New year, new state laws.A slew of state laws take effect at the turn of the calendar – ranging from minimum wage changes to pink hunting gear to a mandatory cursive writing curriculum. One state will even begin paying people to relocate for remote work.A few of the more notable changes: Minimum wages will increase At the start of the new year, 19 states and 21 cities will increase their minimum wage, according to the National Employment Law Project. About 17 million people from New York to California will have received pay bumps, the project estimates, once additional minimum wage increases are phased in throughout the year. Illinois hunters can wear bright pink Hunting enthusiasts in Illinois have a new wardrobe choice. In addition to bright orange, hunters can wear bright pink in 2019 to meet safety requirements during gun deer seasons.The bill passed unanimously in both state chambers. The new color option is supposed to help hunters see each other and prevent accidents among those hunting upland game with a firearm. Previously, hunters were limited to orange hats and upper outer garments displaying a minimum of 400 square inches of orange.Related:Amish man fined $28,000 for poaching 26-point buckRelated:This family went hunting Christmas Eve but got stuck in a snowstorm. They weren't found until 4 days later.Vermont will pay remote workers to move thereRemote workers who relocate to Vermont can apply for up to $10,000 from the state government, starting Tuesday.To promote economic growth, Vermont will cover expenses related to moving and working from home or a co-working space, including computer software and hardware. The state will give up to $125,000 to qualified applicants in 2019 on a first-come, first-served basis.California requires pet stores to sell only rescued animalsOnly dogs, cats and rabbits from shelters or rescue groups can be sold at pet stores in California, beginning Tuesday. If pet store owners don't follow the law, including posting where the pet came from on its cage, they will pay up to a $500 fine. Hawaii legalizes medically assisted suicideFollowing six other states and Washington, D.C., Hawaii will allow doctors to provide fatal prescription medicine to terminally ill patients who make several requests. Two health care providers must confirm a patient's diagnosis and decision-making ability. A counselor must verify if depression or other conditions prevent the patient from making an informed decision. Ohio requires kids to learn cursive Ohio decided that cursive isn't obsolete. A law will require students to write legibly in cursive by the end of fifth grade. The handwriting instructional materials must be part of school curriculum by July 1. Tennessee bans 'sanctuary' policiesUnder a law prohibiting jurisdictions and law enforcement from adopting "sanctuary" immigration policies, officials may be forced to work with U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement. No cities in the state formally hold a “sanctuary city” status, according to the Memphis Commercial Appeal, a member of the USA TODAY Network. One county sheriff's office may have to reverse its policy on refusing to detain people suspected of living in the country without documentation.Massachusetts raises legal smoking ageJoining six other states, Massachusetts will allow only those 21 and older to purchase tobacco products. Young adults who turned 18 – the previous age requirement – before the new year can still buy cigarettes, however.