 President Donald Trump. | Drew Angerer/Getty Images The journalistic juices are now flowing, with the editorial pages of The Washington Post, Los Angeles Times, Boston Globe, Orlando Sentinel, Philadelphia Inquirer, and USA Today all calling for impeachment of President Donald Trump.
But the recent flurry of editorials hasn’t come close to the level two decades ago when more than 115 newspaper boards called for President Bill Clinton’s resignation after the release of independent counsel Ken Starr’s report, which took place two months before articles were officially drawn up in Congress. And the half-dozen or so editorial boards out front this time remain largely on the coasts or are geared toward national audiences.
Outlets in regions with more conservative electorates – some of which attracted attention in 2016 by backing Democrat Hillary Clinton over Trump despite having long track records of supporting Republicans – have weighed in far more tentatively.
That’s a sign that the House impeachment hearings have yet to generate much of a groundswell for Trump’s removal from office. But nor has there been any indication that editorial boards are embracing his claim that the hearings are a hoax or a coup.
The Arizona Republic’s editorial board, for one, has called Trump “dangerously reckless” in pressuring Ukraine to open politically motivated investigations, yet stopped short of arguing for impeachment. “The Democratic Congress will impeach. The Republican Senate will acquit. And then we'll have an election. The rest is all posturing,” Phil Boas, editorial director of The Arizona Republic, told POLITICO. “The American people will be judge and jury. Given the sharp divisions and real anger in the country, that's the best way forward.”
The Phoenix-based outlet was one of numerous papers that traditionally backed Republican presidential candidates but instead endorsed Clinton, along with the Cincinnati Enquirer, Columbus Dispatch, Dallas Morning News, and Houston Chronicle. None have yet made the case for impeaching Trump for his role in the Ukraine scandal. Impeachment also isn’t dominating the news side of those five publications, where local issues remain paramount to the constitutional debate consuming Washington. House Democrats charging Trump on Tuesday with abuse of power and obstruction was covered Wednesday morning on all five front pages. But by midday Wednesday, stories on impeachment were either buried below dozens of headlines on the paper’s homepages or missing altogether. Nonetheless, the papers' editorial boards haven’t ignored what's happening Washington. For instance, The Houston Chronicle criticized Texas Sen. Ted Cruz and fellow Republicans this week for suggesting Ukraine and Russia similarly interfered in the 2016 election and urged Congress back in July to open impeachment hearings in response to revelations in special counsel Robert Mueller’s investigation.
Michael Lindenberger, the Houston Chronicle’s deputy opinion editor, said his paper is considering when next to weigh in on impeachment — perhaps before a full House vote and ahead of a Senate trial — and stressed in an email to POLITICO that by leaving “national affairs to the national newspapers, the debate would be entirely comprised of voices from the east and west coasts.” “That’s not healthy for a democracy,” he continued, “and we take seriously the fact that writing from Texas — or from the deep South or Midwest or Northwest, as the case may be — adds a perspective that can be subtly or sometimes starkly different from the vantage point shared by the Times, the Post or other national outlets.”
Arguments for impeaching the president haven’t only come from the coasts: The Chicago Sun-Times recently made its case after the Chicago Tribune suggested Trump be censured instead. Back in September, The St. Louis Post-Dispatch declared that Trump should leave office either by resignation or via impeachment, a view also espoused by the Connecticut Post. Some major papers calling for Trump’s impeachment this week, like The Washington Post and USA Today, still made clear in editorials that they’re withholding final judgment on his removal from office until after a Senate trial. Other papers may also be waiting for different milestones, like moving from the House to the Senate, to weigh in definitively. It’s debatable whether editorials boards — which operate separately from the paper’s newsroom and often reflect ownership’s views — can sway public opinion. Clinton was overwhelmingly the preferred candidate among editorial writers, yet lost. And Americans’ views on impeachment appear fairly solid and reinforced through their media diets.
“We always want to influence people’s thinking. We always want to persuade people,” Los Angeles Times editorial page editor Nicholas Goldberg in an interview, adding that “in very partisan times” it can be “hard to persuade people for things they don’t already believe.”
Goldberg acknowledged that “no one would ever think that the L.A. Times was a pro-Trump paper.” Beyond endorsing Clinton in 2016, the editorial board published a seven-part series the following year called “Our Dishonest President.” The same is largely true at The Boston Globe, where Bina Venkataraman started as the paper’s editorial page editor on the first day of public impeachment hearings last month. Following three weeks of testimony, she said, it became clear the president tried “to extort Ukraine to interfere in our election.” "We may not change a vote in Congress with this editorial,” Venkataraman told POLITICO. “Even so,” she said, “it’s important editorially to stand as a journalistic institution, to stand for what we believe in.”