Credit...Erin Schaff/The New York TimesMay 6, 2019WASHINGTON — The Trump administration ruled out turning over President Trump’s tax returns to the House on Monday and girded for a looming contempt of Congress resolution against Attorney General William P. Barr.The actions ratcheted up the showdown between the executive and legislative branches, as Mr. Trump and his administration continued to resist the Democrats’ oversight efforts on multiple fronts.Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin told the chairman of the House Ways and Means Committee, Richard E. Neal of Massachusetts, that he would not grant access to six years of personal and business tax returns. He said the demand “lacks a legitimate legislative purpose,” a view that Democrats are almost certain to contest in court.The Democrats were already moving against Mr. Barr. The House Judiciary Committee announced a vote for Wednesday that would recommend that the House hold Mr. Barr in contempt of Congress for defying a subpoena for Robert S. Mueller III’s full report and evidence. Though, by Monday evening, the Justice Department had agreed to a staff-level meeting on Tuesday to try to stave off that possibility.While the White House and Democrats were jousting in Washington, in New York, Mr. Trump’s former personal lawyer Michael D. Cohen reported to federal prison.“On a day when his former fixer heads to jail and his current fixer heads the Department of Justice, President Trump obstructs both Mueller and his tax returns from speaking for themselves,” said Representative Lloyd Doggett, Democrat of Texas and a Ways and Means Committee member. He added, “If Trump once again faces only Republican silence and Democratic timidity, he will continue to erode our democracy by assuming more and more power.”Democrats for years have clamored for Mr. Trump’s tax returns, which they say could show misdeeds and tax evasions. Mr. Neal settled on a rationale that he needs them to evaluate the Internal Revenue Service’s practice of auditing sitting presidents and vice presidents.But Mr. Mnuchin said that was not good enough.“As you have recognized, the committee’s request is unprecedented, and it presents serious constitutional questions, the resolution of which may have lasting consequences for all taxpayers,” Mr. Mnuchin wrote in the one-page letter to Mr. Neal. Mr. Mnuchin twice delayed giving Mr. Neal a formal response to the request, made just over a month ago, saying that he needed more time to analyze the law.Even before Mr. Mnuchin’s letter, tensions were rising after the Justice Department disregarded a series of deadlines to hand over material from Mr. Mueller, the special counsel, that Democrats insisted was central to the House’s ability to fully investigate and evaluate the president’s behavior detailed in Mr. Mueller’s report.[Read the contempt resolution here.]At the same time, the Judiciary Committee was preparing to raise the pressure on Donald F. McGahn II, a former White House counsel and chief witness in the special counsel investigation, if he misses a Tuesday deadline to hand over key documents that the White House says are subject to executive privilege.Mr. Barr, who refused to testify last week before the Judiciary Committee because of a dispute over format, has earned special ire, serving as a kind of surrogate punching bag for Democrats frustrated with Mr. Trump but leery of impeachment. If the full House follows suit and votes to hold Mr. Barr in contempt, it would be only the second time that the nation’s top law enforcement officer has been penalized by lawmakers in that way.The Judiciary Committee’s chairman, Representative Jerrold Nadler of New York, said the Wednesday vote could still be avoided if the Justice Department changes course. Hours after Democrats announced their plan, a deputy to Mr. Barr wrote to hold out that possibility, kicking off a new round of exchanges with an uncertain outcome.The deputy, Stephen E. Boyd, initially said that the department was willing to meet Wednesday afternoon — after the scheduled contempt vote — “to negotiate an accommodation that meets the legitimate interests of each of our coequal branches of government.” But the department later agreed to move the meeting up to Tuesday.Democrats had compiled a 27-page contempt report documenting their interactions with the attorney general and the scope of their own investigation of obstruction of justice and abuse of power. Mr. Nadler said he hoped the two sides could resolve the dispute, but kept the contempt vote on Wednesday’s schedule.“Even in redacted form, the special counsel’s report offers disturbing evidence and analysis that President Trump engaged in obstruction of justice at the highest levels,” Mr. Nadler said. “Congress must see the full report and underlying evidence to determine how to best move forward with oversight, legislation and other constitutional responsibilities.”Among those “other responsibilities,” Mr. Nadler’s accompanying report said, was determining “whether to approve articles of impeachment with respect to the president or any other administration official, as well as the consideration of other steps such as censure or issuing criminal, civil or administrative referrals.”The Democrat-controlled panel will almost certainly vote in favor of contempt unless the Justice Department meets its demands. It is unclear when a full House vote would occur, and the interlude could allow another opportunity for negotiation.Mr. Barr himself has kept out of the public eye since a hearing in the Senate last week, where he offered an unflinching defense of his decision not to charge Mr. Trump with obstruction of justice, despite evidence gathered by Mr. Mueller. His aides have argued that Democrats are being unreasonable. The attorney general, they say, voluntarily released the 448-page report on the Trump campaign’s links to Russia and possible obstruction of justice with minimal redactions and offered to testify voluntarily before the Judiciary Committee.“The attorney general has taken extraordinary steps to accommodate the House Judiciary Committee’s requests for information regarding the special counsel’s investigation,” a Justice Department spokeswoman, Kerri Kupec, said on Monday.The Treasury Department was similarly untroubled. Mr. Mnuchin said not only would he not turn over the returns but he could not. “The department may not lawfully fulfill the committee’s request,” he said.Mr. Neal’s next move is not clear. He could file a lawsuit against the Treasury Department, accusing Mr. Mnuchin of not following the law, or he could try to access Mr. Trump’s returns with a subpoena. Both options would most likely lead to a protracted fight through the court system.He issued a terse statement on Monday afternoon in response to Mr. Mnuchin: “I will consult with counsel and determine the appropriate response.”Mr. Trump broke decades of precedent by not releasing his tax returns while running for president, claiming that he could not do so because he was under audit by the I.R.S. There are no laws preventing taxpayers from releasing their returns while under audit.The disputes are only two of a growing number of confrontations between House investigators and Mr. Trump and his administration that are threatening to boil over into court and stall Democratic investigations. Party leaders, who counseled investigations over impeachment after the Mueller report, are now considering whether to change course in the face of administration stonewalling without giving the president the impeachment fight he seems to want.Democrats got some backup on Monday when more than 375 former Justice Department officials and federal prosecutors who had worked for Republican and Democratic administrations released a letter asserting that Mr. Trump would have been charged with obstruction of justice if he had not been protected by a Justice Department policy that says a sitting president cannot be indicted.“Each of us believes that the conduct of President Trump described in Special Counsel Robert Mueller’s report would, in the case of any other person not covered by the Office of Legal Counsel policy against indicting a sitting president, result in multiple felony charges for obstruction of justice,” they wrote.The president was giving no ground.He said on Sunday that he objected to Mr. Mueller testifying before the Judiciary Committee, and he urged the country to move on from an investigation that did not result in criminal charges. The grounds and weight of his objection were unclear, but it could easily stall a hearing, which Democrats had hoped to hold as soon as next week.Mr. Trump has likewise said Mr. McGahn ought not cooperate with the committee’s request for testimony or with its subpoena for documents related to key episodes of possible obstruction laid out by Mr. Mueller. Democrats were preparing for another possible court fight should the president try to assert executive privilege to block Mr. McGahn from discussing their private conversations, including when Mr. Trump tried to use Mr. McGahn to fire Mr. Mueller and alter records of their conversation.Democrats say the first step is still to see Mr. Mueller’s entire report and the evidence that he collected. On Friday, Mr. Nadler wrote to the attorney general one last time to open the door to possible concessions in an effort to revive discussions on the documents. The Justice Department did not respond until Monday afternoon.In his response letter, Mr. Boyd chastised Democrats for their decision not to view a less redacted version of the report made available by Mr. Barr. Democrats had objected to doing so because the department offered the arrangement to only a dozen lawmakers and said that they must sign a nondisclosure agreement.Mr. Boyd now says he is open to reconsidering that arrangement and would be willing to discuss prioritizing the sharing of certain raw evidence collected by Mr. Mueller.Representative Doug Collins of Georgia, the Judiciary Committee’s top Republican, welcomed the Justice Department’s invitation and blasted Democrats’ “illogical and disingenuous” demands.“Democrats have launched a proxy war smearing the attorney general when their anger actually lies with the president and the special counsel, who found neither conspiracy nor obstruction,” he said.A contempt finding would do two things for Democrats: put a mark on Mr. Barr’s record and push the dispute into the courts where a judge could decide whether to force the administration to hand over the material. But that could take months or longer, affecting the pace and scope of Democratic investigations.When House Republicans chose to pursue contempt in 2012 against Attorney General Eric H. Holder Jr., in connection with requests for information about the botched “Fast and Furious” gun trafficking investigation, litigation took several years, though Congress ultimately prevailed.