On Friday evening, police released the names of the victims. Gurpreet Singh, president of Sikh Satsang, a local temple for the city’s vibrant Sikh community, said that four Sikh people were among the dead.Here’s what to knowIndianapolis officials identified the victims as Matthew R. Alexander, 32; Samaria Blackwell, 19; Amarjeet Johal, 66; Jaswinder Kaur, 64; Jaswinder Singh, 68; Amarjit Sekhon, 48; Karli Smith, 19; and John Weisert, 74.Police said they recovered a rifle but did not specify the make and model. A gun was seized from Hole about a year ago, officials said, and he was “found in a couple police reports.”Police responded just after 11 p.m. Thursday to reports of shots fired. Hole “took his life very shortly before officers actually entered the facility,” police said.Authorities are still trying to determine a motive, saying Hole “just appeared to randomly start shooting” in the parking lot before moving inside the building.It was the sixth public mass shooting in the United States in five weeks, including massacres at three Atlanta spas and a supermarket in Boulder.Four members of Indianapolis’s Sikh community among those killed, leaders sayReturn to menuCorrection: This post previously referred to Satjeet Kaur with male pronouns. It has been corrected.At least four members of the Sikh community were among the eight people killed at the facility, according to national and local Sikh leaders.“Sadly, we acknowledge that this number is subject to change for the worse as more information becomes publicly available and those who were injured are treated at area hospitals,” said the Sikh Coalition, a national advocacy group, in a statement Friday night.Among them was Amarjeet Kaur Johal, who took night shifts at the FedEx facility to support her family, including at least three grandchildren, according to Gurpreet Singh, the president of her temple. She was 66, police said.Johal’s granddaughter, Komal Chohan, said she is “heartbroken” — and that several other family members who work at the FedEx facility are “traumatized.”“My nani, my family, and our families should not feel unsafe at work, at their place of worship, or anywhere,” Chohan said. “Enough is enough — our community has been through enough trauma.”Victims Jasvinder Kaur, 50, and Amarjit Sekhon, 49, were also part of the Sikh community, according to family member Rimpi Girn. Indianapolis police provided a different spelling of Kaur’s name and both victims’ ages (Jaswinder Kaur, 64, and Amarjit Sekhon, 48).“While we don’t yet know the motive of the shooter, he targeted a facility known to be heavily populated by Sikh employees, and the attack is traumatic for our community as we continue to face senseless violence,” said Satjeet Kaur, the Sikh Coalition’s executive director.The number of people in Indianapolis practicing Sikhism, a monotheistic religion that originated in northern India, has grown in recent years. About 8,000 to 10,000 Sikh Americans live in Indiana, according to the Sikh Coalition.Hannah Knowles contributed to this report.Eight shooting victims identifiedReturn to menuAuthorities on Friday evening released the identities of those killed in Thursday night’s shooting and said they had made notifications to next of kin.Officials identified the victims as Matthew R. Alexander, 32; Samaria Blackwell, 19; Amarjeet Johal, 66; Jaswinder Kaur, 64; Jaswinder Singh, 68; Amarjit Sekhon, 48; Karli Smith, 19; and John Weisert, 74.The Marion County Coroner’s Office will determine the causes of death after autopsies are finished, Indianapolis police said, adding that the names of other victims are not being released.Victim Amarjeet Kaur Johal took night shifts to support her family, faith leader saysReturn to menuAmarjeet Kaur Johal, who had attended Sikh Satsang of Indianapolis for at least four years, was a hard worker, taking night shifts at the FedEx facility to support her family, including at least three grandchildren, said Gurpreet Singh, the temple’s president.Singh said he was not sure if other members were among those killed, as information about what happened and the victims has trickled out slowly Friday.When news of the shooting first broke Thursday, Singh feared he would know those who died, as some temple members work at that facility.“Everyone was worried,” he said.On Friday, as he searched for details, he learned Johal was among the dead from spotting her photo on social media.He recognized her face — the same woman who frequently volunteered in the temple’s kitchen. Kamaljt Kaur, who is in charge of the kitchen, remembered Johal was often smiling, either while cooking for the hundreds of members who attend the temple or cleaning up.“She never refused to do any chores,” she said.Two weeks ago, when one of Johal’s friends threw a party at the temple, Johal wore an elaborate, traditional dress and put on makeup.“Everyone was telling her ‘you look beautiful,’” Kaur recalled, “and she was smiling.”Johal’s granddaughter, Komal Chohan, said in a statement that she is “heartbroken.”“We are still working to identify others who were injured and killed on Thursday night,” Chohan said. “I have several family members who work at the particular facility and are traumatized. My nani, my family, and our families should not feel unsafe at work, at their place of worship, or anywhere. Enough is enough — our community has been through enough trauma.”Woman waits to learn if her 19-year-old friend is aliveReturn to menuBy Mary Claire Molloy7:10 p.m.CORRECTION: An earlier version of this post identified Troutman as Smith’s sister. They are close friends. This post has been corrected, and also updated to note authorities later confirmed that Smith had died.Dominique Troutman hasn’t heard from her close family friend, whom she considers a younger sister, for more than 14 hours. She waited at the Holiday Inn in Indianapolis on Friday, hoping to learn if Karli Smith, 19, was alive.“No call. No text. No nothing,” Troutman, 21, told The Washington Post. “Words can’t even explain how I feel right now.”She said she knows Smith would have been scared during the shooting and wishes she could hold her hand. Troutman called local hospitals but said she was not given any names or additional information.Troutman had not responded to further requests from The Post about Smith’s status as of 7 p.m. Friday. Later that night, authorities confirmed that Smith was among those killed.Witness in car heard shots, saw gunman run into buildingReturn to menuOlivia Thla Sui and her friends had just finished waiting in line to receive their paychecks before returning to her car, which was parked in the second row in front of the FedEx facility.“We were not in the car for even one minute when we heard a gunshot sound about 5-6 times,” she told The Washington Post.Sui had never heard live gunfire before, so she thought the loud bangs were fireworks.“That’s when I looked around and saw the gunman with a rifle, run into the building, and heard more of that same gunshot noise afterward,” she said.Sui had to leave her phone in the car. So when the shooting began, she said she did not even have time to grab the phone because the attack unfolded so suddenly. She started reversing from the parking lot as fast as she could and left the facility.Jasvinder Kaur, Amarjit Sekhon and Jaswinder Singh among victims, relatives sayReturn to menuBy Mary Claire Molloy6:08 p.m.Relatives have identified several of the victims in the mass shooting at a FedEx facility in Indianapolis.Jasvinder Kaur, 50, and Amarjit Sekhon, 49, are among the eight dead, according to Rimpi Girn, a family member. She said Sekhon was her aunt and Kaur was her sister-in-law’s mother, but she was close to both and likes to refer to them as her mothers or aunts.Both were members of the Sikh community in Indianapolis.Indianapolis police provided a different spelling of Kaur’s name and both victims’ ages (Jaswinder Kaur, 64, and Amarjit Sekhon, 48).They worked on the 11 p.m. shift at FedEx, Kaur said. She said she thinks her aunts were killed in their car by a gunman in the parking lot.Kaur immigrated to the United States from India to be with her daughter, who is a citizen, Girn told The Washington Post. She also has a 26-year-old son back home in India.Sekhon moved to Indiana from Ohio two years ago and had two teenage sons, Girn said.Jaswinder Singh was also identified as one of the victims, by his nephew, 27-year-old Harry Singh.Gunman was interviewed by FBI in April 2020 after mother contacted authoritiesReturn to menuThe shooter in Indianapolis was interviewed by FBI agents last year, authorities revealed Friday, after his mother contacted law enforcement to report that he might try to die by “suicide by cop.”In a statement, FBI Indianapolis Special Agent in Charge Paul Keenan said Brandon Hole’s mother contacted law enforcement in March 2020 to report the possible suicide, and Indianapolis police placed him on an “immediate detention mental health hold.” Keenan said FBI agents interviewed Hole the next month because of “items observed in the suspect’s bedroom at that time.”Keenan’s statement did not specify what those items were, and an FBI spokeswoman declined to comment.Keenan said a shotgun was seized at Hole’s residence, and it was not returned. He said no “Racially Motivated Violent Extremism” — an FBI term generally used to refer to those motivated to commit crimes based on race — was identified during the FBI’s assessment, and “no criminal violation was found.”‘If I had been 10 minutes early to work, could it have been me?’Return to menuBy Mary Claire Molloy5:23 p.m.An Indianapolis FedEx employee was 10 minutes late to his 11 p.m. shift Thursday night. He thinks stopping to buy a Pepsi before work might have saved him from being a victim of a mass shooting.The employee asked to be identified only by his first name, Tim, because his company had not authorized him to speak to the media. He said he and other colleagues tried to enter their gate to go to work Thursday night, but were told they could not enter. They were evacuated as police responded to an active shooter at the scene.Police identified former FedEx employee Brandon Hole, 19, as the gunman who killed at least eight people and wounded others before shooting himself at the scene.“If I had been 10 minutes early to work, could it have been me?” Tim asked aloud. “Only the good Lord knows.”When his phone buzzed with a new message, he began to tear up. It was from his 7-year-old daughter.“Are you ok, daddy? I love you.”“When I get home tonight, I’m going to wrap up my little girl and actually tell her how much I love her,” he said, crying.He texted back three words to answer her question.“Yes I am.”Radio dispatches capture scene at FedEx: ‘We’ll have multiple patients’Return to menuThe ominous dispatches for 8951 Mirabel Rd. started flooding the police radio in Indianapolis shortly after 11 p.m. Thursday.Someone relayed a report of “10 shots, from near the front of the entrance … possibly from the inside. No further seen or heard. Less than one minute ago,” according to audio archived by Broadcastify.“10-4,” another person said, the radio code for “understood.”A woman chimed in: “I have a female who’s in a control room who advised that the subject is still shooting. She does not have a visual but can hear the shots.” Another caller described “a possible person shot laying near security in the front entrance of the building,” a man said.“EMS is staging,” he said.The reports came in quick succession. Responders thought there might be two shooters.“White male, dark-colored clothing, walking a parking lot,” a woman said, about a minute and a half after the “10 shots” report.“Shooter for a white male wearing a hat has a machine gun currently in front of the building,” another call said, rapid-fire.“An older white male who is on foot, it was possible an employee with a rifle.”The reports of injuries were piling up, too. One victim was in a bathroom, someone said.“We have an active shooter currently at FedEx,” a woman said, adding that least five people were reported shot.Officials were still hearing reports of two shooters. There were more reports of medics staging — and calls to prepare medical centers.“Control, advise Eskenazi we’ll have multiple patients. Advise them to be ready. Advise St. Vincent.”“We’re calling the hospitals,” came a reply.Asked who had found “casualties,” someone responded that a person was shot and “conscious, barely” in the parking lot.Then, less than 15 minutes after the “10 shots” report, a woman said there was only one perpetrator. He was “down” too, with a gunshot wound to the head, officials said.Gunman identified as 19-year-old manReturn to menuIndianapolis police identified 19-year-old Brandon Hole as the gunman who killed eight people and left several others injured at a FedEx facility on April 15. (Indianapolis Metropolitan Police Department)Indianapolis police identified the gunman as Brandon Hole, 19.McCartt told reporters that Hole worked at FedEx until 2020 and that he did not know the circumstances of Hole’s departure.Hole had been mentioned in a couple of previous police reports, including one from roughly 2013 and another in which law enforcement seized a gun from him about a year ago, McCartt said. He did not provide other details about Hole’s earlier interactions with police.Detectives investigating the shooting have served search warrants at several locations, McCartt said.At least 100 people were in the FedEx facility when the shooting happened, including many who were changing shifts or on their dinner break, McCartt said.Police have not released the victims’ identities. McCartt said officers were still identifying the dead and notifying families.‘Lisa, she was a sweet girl’: Man says cousin among workers killed Return to menuEditor`s Note: The name Lisa Barton was not included on the list of victims released by authorities Friday night. This interview was conducted before police released the names of the shooting victims.Jeremy Teague of Indianapolis told The Washington Post that his cousin Lisa Barton was among the workers killed.She had just started her shift at 11 p.m. and was leaving the break room, he said.“Lisa, she was a sweet girl,” Teague said. “I don’t know why she had to be shot. This is just senseless.”Teague remembers playing house with his cousin when they were younger. After years of their families being separated, they recently reunited online and had plans to see each other soon.“Now I don’t even get that chance,” he said.Teague said he is not opposed to gun ownership, but the staggering loss of life in such a small time frame suggested to him that the perpetrator wielded a semiautomatic weapon.“I am tired of the gun violence and wish they would take all these semiautomatic weapons off the streets,” he said.Forty people have been killed in six public mass shootings in the past monthReturn to menuGun deaths soared to the highest number in 20 years last year, but relatively few were the result of high-profile public mass shootings.Since March 17, however, when eight people were fatally shot in an Atlanta rampage, 40 in total have been killed in six public mass shootings. (The Post defines a public mass shooting as four or more people are killed, not including the shooter.)The settings have been different, but all involved people being gunned down while doing mundane things, such as working or buying groceries — or people in homes who were targeted by shooters who also carried out public attacks.More questions than answers for families, friends waiting word on victims at Holiday InnReturn to menuBy Mary Claire Molloy1:21 p.m.INDIANAPOLIS — In the lobby of a Holiday Inn Express, employees directed family members to a nearby conference room to await news of their loved ones. At least 8 people were killed at the nearby FedEx facility; officials have not yet identified the victims.One of the employees, who gave his name as Tim, said he was present for the shooting. “I’ll be honest, it’s not something I want to remember right now,” he said. “I lost several teammates.”Carts of food, including Doritos, Slim Jims and stacks of pizza boxes, lined a hallway.Mary Carol Weisert was among those waiting for more information about her husband of almost 50 years, John ‘Steve’ Weisert, 74. She said she had been begging him for weeks to retire from his job as a package handler so that they could travel and visit their daughter in Seattle. Weisert said she and her son prayed in their Honda Pilot last night, between cups of coffee.Another man entered the Holiday Inn and asked for more information. “I’m here for my son, to find out if he was one of the ones killed,” he said, with tears in his eyes.Biden says gun violence ‘stains our character’ Return to menuPresident Biden said Friday that gun violence “stains our character and pierces the very soul of our nation” as he ordered that flags at the White House and other federal properties be lowered to half-staff yet again.In a statement in which he called gun violence an “epidemic,” Biden also reiterated his call for Congress to pass universal background checks and an assault weapon ban.“We can, and must, do more to act and to save lives,” Biden said.Biden said that he and Vice President Harris had been briefed on the shooting in Indianapolis — “just the latest in a string of tragedies, following closely after gunmen firing bullets in broad day light at spas in and around Atlanta, Georgia, a grocery store in Boulder, Colorado, a home in Rock Hill, South Carolina, and so many other shootings.”He noted that just a week ago he announced several executive actions on gun control during an event at the Rose Garden in the White House and that the Indianapolis shootings came just before the 14th anniversary of a mass shooting at Virginia Tech in which a gunman killed 32 people.“Gun violence is an epidemic in America,” Biden said. “But we should not accept it. We must act. … Too many Americans are dying every single day from gun violence. It stains our character and pierces the very soul of our nation.”