WASHINGTON – The Biden administration on Wednesday unveiled plans to begin offering COVID-19 booster shots on Sept. 20 for American adults who received the Pfizer or Moderna vaccines as cases of the highly contagious delta coronavirus variant continue to spread across the country.The U.S. will provide a third shot to Americans who received their second vaccine dose at least eight months ago, pending authorization from the U.S. Food and Drug Administration.President Joe Biden announced the decision – along with a series of measures to boost vaccination rates at nursing homes and thwart states' plans to block mask mandates in schools – in remarks at the White House. "This will boost your immune response. It will increase your protection from COVID-19," Biden said. "That's the best way to protect ourselves from new variants that could arise."Though mRNA vaccines like Pfizer and Moderna continue to be effective in reducing risk of hospitalization and death, federal officials said new data shows the vaccines' effectiveness decreases over time."Based on our latest assessment, the current protection against severe disease, hospitalization, and death could diminish in the months ahead, especially among those who are at higher risk or were vaccinated during the earlier phases of the vaccination rollout," top U.S. health officials said in a joint statement. "For that reason, we conclude that a booster shot will be needed to maximize vaccine-induced protection and prolong its durability."COVID and kids:The delta variant of COVID-19 is more contagious for children. Is it making them sicker, too?Johnson & Johnson shots:'Naked in the world of COVID': Some J&J vaccine recipients feel unprotected against delta and want mRNA shotsPeople who received the single-dose Johnson & Johnson vaccine probably will also need an extra shot, but officials said they're still collecting data because the federal rollout of the vaccine did not begin in the U.S. until March.The initial doses will go to those who were fully vaccinated earliest in the vaccine rollout, including health care providers, nursing home residents and other older Americans. The administration plans to also begin delivering booster shots directly to residents of long-term-care facilities, according to a joint statement by top U.S. public health officials including CDC Director Rochelle Walensky, FDA Acting Commissioner Janet Woodcock, U.S. Surgeon General Vivek Murthy and Dr. Anthony Fauci, head of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases.The announcement comes as the delta variant now accounts for more than 98.8% of U.S. cases, according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. The CDC also released three studies Wednesday that Walensky said informed the booster decision. They showed that while mRNA vaccines remain effective against hospitalization from the virus, protections against infection begin to wane after time. The booster shots will be offered to fully vaccinated Americans ages 18 and older, Murthy told reporters. He said officials were waiting on an FDA review before providing guidance on vaccinated people ages 12 to 17. The shots will be free, regardless of health insurance or immigration status, White House COVID-19 response coordinator Jeff Zients said.Biden's remarks come less than a week after the CDC issued a recommendation for booster shots for some immunocompromised people, or about 3% of the U.S. population. Administration officials had said there was no need for a booster shot for other Americans to protect against the delta variant.Biden pushes back on global criticismThe president and other administration officials contend the U.S. has enough supply to offer a third shot to Americans while also keeping its commitment to donate doses to low-income countries still struggling to inoculate their populations. But global health advocates argue the booster plan only exacerbates an inequity gap. Earlier this month, WHO Director-General Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus called for a moratorium on booster shots to allow poorer countries to catch up. Sarah Swinehart, senior director of communications for The ONE Campaign,a global nonpartisan organization that fights poverty and preventable disease, said the decision to offer boosters "will further exacerbate global vaccine inequities and prolong the pandemic at home and abroad." "It’s outrageous that a healthy, vaccinated individual will be able to get a third shot before the elderly and health workers in low-income countries can get a single dose," she said. "The fact that the U.S. and other wealthy countries are in need of booster shots is an indictment of the world’s failure to have a global plan to end this virus."Biden acknowledged that the U.S. needs to balance offering booster shots against its campaign to get more people vaccinated at home and abroad. "We can take care of America and help the world at the same time," he said. While the administration expects to administer 100 million booster shots to Americans in the coming months, Biden said the U.S. will donate more than 200 million additional doses to other countries – part of a pledge to donate more than 600 million vaccines worldwide.The U.S. announced earlier this week that it was shipping its first batch of the 500 million Pfizer vaccine doses Biden pledged to purchase and donate to countries around the world. Nearly 500,000 doses of Pfizer were shipped Rwanda through the global sharing vaccine alliance known as COVAX.For subscribers:Many states don't consistently track tribal death data, masking COVID-19 impact on Native Americans, study findsNew CDC studies The three studies Walensky cited helped convince health officials a third dose would be required in the coming months. The reports show the vaccines' effectiveness declined during the summer months amid a rise in cases of the delta variant. The drop in effectiveness varies depending on the cohort, but the data consistently demonstrates a reduction.A study of 10 million New Yorkers found effectiveness decreased from 92% in May to about 80% in late July, Walensky said. Data from Mayo Clinic Health System facilities showed the Pfizer-BioNTech vaccine’s effectiveness declined from 76% to 42% and Moderna's declined from 86% to 76%, she said.Plus, reports from thousands of nursing homes showed effectiveness dropped from 75% in March to 53% on Aug. 1 among the most vulnerable populations during the months when delta was the dominant strain, she said.But an analysis of patients at 21 hospitals in 18 states found "sustained high protection from severe COVID-19 requiring hospitalization" through July. Contributing: N'Dea Yancey-Bragg and Elinor Aspegren, USA TODAY