    D.C. has a 42 percent chance of feeling tropical storm-force winds in the next few days. | REUTERS President Barack Obama and Mitt Romney both shifted their schedules Saturday around Hurricane Sandy as the eastern third of the United States braced for the looming storm.  Obama campaign events in Northern Virginia Monday and in Colorado Springs, Colo., on Tuesday have been canceled, press secretary Jay Carney said in a statement late Saturday evening.  “The President is being regularly updated on the storm and ongoing preparations, and he has directed his team to continue to bring all available resources to bear as state and local partners continue to prepare for the storm,” Carney said. Obama “will continue to receive regular briefings on these efforts, and has made clear that he expects his team to continue to lean forward as Hurricane Sandy approaches.”  Mitt Romney canceled all of his events scheduled for Virginia on Sunday and has decided instead to go to Ohio and campaign there Monday morning.  The storm currently sits off the coast of Florida, and tropical storm watches and warnings are in effect in the Carolinas. Federal officials warned that the East Coast from South Carolina on up should be prepared for heavy rains and winds – and inland areas could see up to 2 feet or more of snow.  ( PHOTOS: Hurricane Sandy)  Tropical storm conditions now present off the coast of North Carolina are expected to soon creep northward. The forecast from the National Hurricane Center projects landfall around Delaware and New Jersey sometime late Monday or early Tuesday.  “With this storm we are going to be dealing with a lot of weather over a large geographic area,” said Federal Emergency Management Agency Administrator Craig Fugate in a conference call with reporters.  Fugate spoke with President Barack Obama and other top administration officials including Homeland Security Secretary Janet Napolitano Saturday morning in preparation for the storm and emphasized to the media to get out the word that it won’t only be coastal areas deluged. Sandy’s reach will extend to areas far inland like the Ohio Valley and Appalachian regions and may cause flooding with the D.C. area’s rivers.  ( Also on POLITICO: Election in Sandy’s shadow)  “FEMA and other federal partners are already sending teams and resources into potentially impacted areas to support state and local preparedness efforts, and Administrator Fugate and I continue to urge those along the East Coast to closely monitor the progress of Hurricane Sandy and continue to follow the guidance and direction of their state and local officials,” Napolitano said late Saturday. The secretary and Fugate reached out to governors up and down the East Coast throughout the day Saturday.  Obama will try to beat out Sandy by leaving Washington for Florida on Sunday afternoon, before the brunt of the storm is expected to hit the D.C. metro area. He will hold an event in Youngstown, Ohio, before returning to Washington to monitor the storm.  Obama also has event scheduled in Wisconsin on Tuesday, though Carney said additional changes to the schedule may be announced. Vice President Joe Biden is set to appear in Ohio on Tuesday.  ( Also on POLITICO: Obama briefed on Sandy)  Both White House and campaign officials downplayed the storm’s potential effect on turnout in swing states as well as the optics of campaigning during a looming disaster.  “We’re closely monitoring the storm. The safety of not only our staff but also our supporters and volunteers is the top priority,” said Obama campaign spokeswoman Jen Psaki in a gaggle with reporters. The Romney camp has rescheduled the three events it had penciled in for Sunday in Virginia. Instead, Romney will fly Sunday morning to Dayton, Ohio, and link up with his running mate, Rep. Paul Ryan, for three campaign stops in Celina, Findlay and Marion. The campaign said the change is a cautionary move aimed to ensure that resources would not be diverted due to the storm. Ryan will move on to Florida on Monday.  Late Saturday, the Obama campaign announced that Jill Biden’s events in North Carolina and Pennsylvania on Sunday and Monday have been canceled due to disaster preparation.  Fugate said FEMA is “not engaged or involved in any of those decisions” at the campaign level for either candidate.  In Kissimmee, Fla., Romney told the crowd to keep those in the hurricane’s path “in your minds and in your hearts. You know how [hard] these hurricanes can be.”  Romney will stay away from the storm on Monday while he campaigns in Iowa, then it’s on to New Hampshire on Tuesday for the first time in weeks, with a stop in Milford, about an hour away from the University of New Hampshire. The school’s campus is closed Monday and Tuesday in preparation for the storm, leading to the cancellation of First Lady Michelle Obama’s appearance at the school on Tuesday. Biden canceled an event Friday that was scheduled to take place in Virginia Beach on Saturday.  Hurricane Sandy weakened to tropical storm status Saturday morning before surging back to hurricane strength. The storm is projected to remain at or near-hurricane strength before interacting with a cold front. Until then, a wide swath of the East Coast waits to see how strong winds will be when they come ashore. As of 8 p.m. Saturday, Sandy had maximum sustained winds of 75 mph.  “We cannot pinpoint exactly where it’s going to come ashore,” said National Hurricane Center director Dr. Rick Knabb. Knabb said people from Virginia north should be preparing for “weather to go downhill” well into next week.  The Federal Aviation Administration said in a statement that it would prepare facilities and equipment in the storm’s path with a top priority to keep air traffic control systems up to speed to “support disaster relief efforts.” The FAA said that it’s in close contact with airlines and that in general commercial flights will cease into and out of airports in the storm’s path well ahead of conditions reaching dangerous levels. Many airlines like US Airways, United and American Airlines have relaxed change fees to East Coast cities and are encouraging customers to take preemptive actions. Amtrak also began canceling some Sunday services around New York and Washington, as did bus lines up and down the Northeast.  New York Gov. Andrew Cuomo has asked the president to declare a disaster before the storm makes landfall to open up the state’s access to FEMA funds. He was later joined in the request by Rep. Nan Hayworth (R-N.Y.), who sent the president a letter late Friday in which she wrote that “due to the anticipated magnitude of Hurricane Sandy, state and local governments in the Hudson Valley may be unable to fully respond without federal assistance.”  Fugate said the timing of such a disaster declaration “does not preclude the assistance that is already going” to states in the storm’s sites, including financial aid.  Disaster-related emergencies have been declared by Cuomo, Massachusetts Gov. Deval Patrick, Connecticut Gov. Daniel Malloy, New Jersey Gov. Chris Christie, Pennsylvania Gov. Tom Corbett, Maryland Gov. Martin O’Malley, Virginia Gov. Bob McDonnell, North Carolina Gov. Bev Perdue and Washington D.C. Mayor Vincent Gray. Both Christie and Delaware Gov. Jack Markell have now announced mandatory evacuations in coastal areas, with Christie suspending some tolls to allow residents to move more quickly on Sunday. New York City Mayor Michael Bloomberg said Saturday evening there are no evacuation orders yet in the city.  Vice President Biden campaigned in Lynchburg, Va., on Saturday, though not with his son Beau as originally intended, who due to his official duties as attorney general stayed in Delaware.  “He just literally drove down from Wilmington, he was sitting in Air Force Two as we were about to take off,” Biden said according to a pool report. “He called and said, ‘Dad, the governor has just called up the National Guard. I’m going home.’”  Maggie Haberman and Bob King contributed to this story. 
