    
The monthly jobs report may be delayed by Hurricane Sandy. | REUTERS Federal officials say they’re preparing to release the jobs and unemployment report on schedule Friday, following up on earlier statements suggesting Hurricane Sandy may delay the closely watched report until after the election.  The department is “working hard to ensure the timely release” of the report, said Gary Steinberg, spokesman for the Labor Department. “It is our intention that Friday will be business as usual.”  ( Also on POLITICO: Conservatives fear jobs report delay)  Labor officials had said earlier Monday that the department would re-assess when to release the report after Hurricane Sandy subsides, drawing renewed criticism from conservatives that the administration was manipulating the report for political purposes.  “Labor Dept says may release latest Unemployment figures until after election. Par for course. Why release something might hurt Obama elect?” Sen. Chuck Grassley (R-Iowa) tweeted.  The accusations echo a controversy from earlier this month, when a small-but-vocal group of Republicans seized on an unexpected drop in the September unemployment rate to accuse the administration of cooking the numbers to boost President Barack Obama’s economic record. The complaints were almost universally rebuked by a bipartisan swath of prominent Republicans and Democrats, but they succeeded in drawing attention away from the positive economic news.  If the final report were to be delayed past the election, it would defuse the final round of a campaign-long struggle between Obama and Mitt Romney over the monthly reports. Republicans have hammered Obama over slow job growth and unemployment rates that continue to exceed the administration’s projections while pushing its 2009 stimulus bill.  But the White House saw a ray of light last month when federal economists reported a drop in the unemployment rate from 8.1 percent in August to 7.8 percent in September.  Hurricane Sandy is costing federal economists time to compile their report, as the majority of federal workers are off Monday. Federal offices are closed Tuesday as well, the Office of Personnel Management announced Monday afternoon.  While the storm could change the jobs report’s schedule, it is unlikely to affect the number itself, as the hiring period covered by the report concluded weeks before the storm hit.  Businesses send their hiring information electronically, so U.S. Postal Service disruptions along the East Coast are unlikely to impede the department’s ability to collect information.  The news that the jobs report could be delayed was first reported by The Wall Street Journal.  This article first appeared on POLITICO Pro at 1:18 p.m. on October 29, 2012. 
