The consequences of America’s targeted killing of a senior Iranian commander are mounting.Credit...Arash Khamooshi for The New York TimesPublished Jan. 5, 2020Updated Nov. 30, 2020BAGHDAD — The consequences of the American killing of a top Iranian general rippled across the Middle East and beyond on Sunday, with Iran all but abandoning a landmark nuclear agreement and Iraqi lawmakers voting to expel American forces from their country.Steeling for retaliation from Iran, an American-led coalition in Iraq and Syria suspended the campaign it has waged against the Islamic State for years, as hundreds of thousands of Iranians took to the street to mourn the general, Qassim Suleimani.“Iran’s nuclear program will have no limitations in production, including enrichment capacity,” the Iranian government said in an announcement Sunday that seemed to signal the de facto collapse of the 2015 agreement.Warning Iran not to attack, President Trump said the United States had pinpointed 52 targets in Iran — including cultural sites. The sites, he said, represented the 52 American hostages held at the United States Embassy in Tehran during the Islamic Revolution in 1979.Amid outrage in Iran, Foreign Minister Mohammad Javad Zarif declared that “targeting cultural sites is a war crime” and predicted that the “end of U.S. malign presence in West Asia has begun.”Mr. Trump also directed his anger at Iraq, warning it not expel American forces, and pointing to an air base the United States built there. “We’re not leaving unless they pay us back for it,” he said. Mr. Trump has said that the killing of General Suleimani on Friday was aimed at preventing war.ImageCredit...Mohammad Hossein Thaghi/Tasnim News Agency, via Associated PressListen to ‘The Daily’: The Assassination of General Qassim SuleimaniWe piece together the events leading up to the killing of one of the most powerful operatives in the Middle East, a strike that has been called an act of war.transcripttranscriptListen to ‘The Daily’: The Assassination of General Qassim SuleimaniHosted by Michael Barbaro, produced by Alexandra Leigh Young and Rachel Quester, and edited by Lisa TobinWe piece together the events leading up to the killing of one of the most powerful operatives in the Middle East, a strike that has been called an act of war.michael barbaroFrom The New York Times, I’m Michael Barbaro. This is “The Daily.”Today: From Iraq to Washington, consequences are mounting after the United States assassinated Iranian General Qassim Suleimani. Helene Cooper on why President Trump chose to do it. It’s Monday, January 6.Helene, what do we know about what led up to this extraordinary decision by the U.S. to take out General Suleimani?helene cooperWell, from what we’ve been able to piece together over the past few days, all of this started on December 27.archived recordingAnd just into Fox, an American contractor was just killed in northern Iraq in a rocket attack, and several U.S. troops were also injured.helene cooperWhen an Iranian-backed Shiite militia group launched an attack in Iraq that ended up killing an American contractor.archived recordingThis is just the latest in a spate of similar rocket attacks, but it’s the first time that we’re actually seeing U.S. casualties.helene cooperRight after this happened, the Pentagon drew up the perennial list of options that the Defense Department is always keeping for the president to respond and decide what he’s going to do in order to respond to the attack. General Mark Milley, the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, and Defense Secretary Mark Esper both flew to Mar-a-Lago, where President Trump was spending the holidays, and met with him, presenting him this list of how do you respond to what the administration immediately determined was an Iranian-backed attack. One option included striking Iranian ships. Another option was striking, perhaps, a missile site or two, or looking for a way to launch airstrikes against the Iranian-backed Shiite militias in Iraq that had started this. Also on the list was one extreme option, which was to launch an attack, which would really be a targeted assassination, actually, of General Qassim Suleimani, who is the head of Iran’s Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps’s Quds Force, and it’s basically Iran’s very muscular, yet covert, arm of the Iranian military. He’s, in essence, the most senior military commander in Iran. This is something that the Defense Department often does, is they will put an extreme option on the table because they will always give all options to the president, but it’s almost their way of nudging the president toward an option that they prefer, right? If you put something that is viewed as a little bit crazy out there, then you get him to do what you want. President Trump, at the time, did not choose the nuclear option.archived recording (mike pompeo)What we did was take a decisive response that makes clear what President Trump has said for months and months and months, which is that we will not stand for the Islamic Republic of Iran to take actions that put American men and women in jeopardy.helene cooperHe went for, let’s launch an attack on the Shiite militia group that launched the attack that killed the American contractor.archived recording 1The Pentagon says it carried out military strikes in Iraq and Syria, targeting a militia group.archived recording 2A spokesman for the group says U.S. airstrikes killed at least 25 of their fighters and hurt more than 50 others. This happened in Iraq and Syria yesterday.michael barbaroSo the president, in the end, chooses a pretty measured kind of tit-for-tat response. We were attacked by missiles, so we will attack with missiles.helene cooperExactly, and we’ll attack who attacked us.michael barbaroGot it.archived recording (mark esper)I would add that, in our discussion today with the president, we discussed with him other options that are available, and I would note also that we will take additional actions as necessary to ensure that we act in our own self-defense, and we deter further bad behavior from militia groups or from Iran.helene cooperSo then, a couple of days later, President Trump is still at Mar-a-Lago, and he’s watching TV. He’s still angry about the initial Shiite militia attack that killed the American contractor, but now he’s seeing, on TV, all of these video images of Iranian-backed protesters attacking the American Embassy in Baghdad.archived recording 1A chaotic scene as protesters stormed the U.S. Embassy in Baghdad today, scaling the walls, forcing the gates, and setting fires inside the heavily guarded compound while diplomats were trapped inside. Some protesters were chanting, “Death to America.”archived recording 2[CHANTING]helene cooperAnd one of the first things that come to his mind is Benghazi and the attack on the American Consulate in Benghazi in 2011 that led to the death of four Americans, including the ambassador to Libya.michael barbaroWhich was an attack of protesters —helene cooperYes.michael barbaro— on an American, essentially, embassy-like building.helene cooperYes.archived recordingHow would you have handled that, if you were watching, in real time, Americans under fire at the American Consulate, and an ambassador under fire?archived recording (donald trump)Well, it would have never taken place, because I think —helene cooperPresident Trump, during his campaign, and for years after the initial attack in Benghazi, really went after Hillary Clinton, who was secretary of state at the time, for not doing enough to prevent that. And this had been a rallying cry during his 2016 campaign, so this was a pretty big deal for him.archived recording (donald trump)Horribly handled. A horrible leadership. She’s a horrible leader.helene cooperSo he’s watching, now, these attacks that are happening under his own watch, and he’s thinking about Benghazi, according to his aides that we talked to. He’s also thinking about the 1979 attack on the American Embassy in Iran that led to the hostage crisis. He’s getting more and more angry, according to his aides, and then he calls for his menu of options again, and this time, he picks the extreme option.michael barbaroAnd so this is the moment when the president calls for the strike on Suleimani, this top general.helene cooperThat’s right. Pentagon officials and administration officials were very surprised, because it’s one thing to give an option to a president. It’s another thing for him to actually do it. They had put that option on the menu for President Trump, not thinking that he would take it, and now he has taken it. So the Defense Department went into action. This is something that the American Defense Department, quite tragically, almost, is very good at doing. We know how to kill people, and we have been tracking, for more than a decade, almost two decades, Qassim Suleimani. So intelligence-wise, we had intelligence reports that he would be flying into Baghdad International Airport that night. There was some question now, as the military is setting up, just sort of the mechanics of how this strike is going to be conducted. The Pentagon had determined that, if he was met, for instance, by Iraqi officials who were friendly towards the United States, they would not go ahead with the strike. If he was not, they would. When General Suleimani’s plane landed, he was met by the head of one of Iraq’s Iranian-backed Shia militias, who was viewed by the United States as somebody who — I think the phrase they used was a “clean party,” meaning it’s O.K. to kill him. It’s kind of a weird way of saying it.michael barbaroSo a clean party means somebody we don’t mind killing?helene cooperExactly. Exactly. And so they authorized the strike and blew up the two-car convoy as it was leaving Baghdad International Airport.archived recording 1In a dramatic escalation of tensions in the Middle East, a U.S. airstrike has killed Iran’s most important military commander.archived recording 2This was a swift, precise military strike that has huge, unpredictable and possibly long-term consequences.michael barbaroSo help us to understand the significance of this decision by the president. Why was this ever an option given to him, even if it was the most extreme option? And why do we think he chose it?helene cooperIt’s hard to explain why President Trump chose to take this option. I think many of us don’t understand it ourselves. The administration will tell you that he’s a very bad guy, and there’s no denying that. The administration will also tell you that he’s responsible for the death of hundreds of American troops. That is true as well. The issue, though — that has been true for years and years, as American troops have battled some Iranian-backed Shia militias in Iraq, and both Presidents Bush and Obama made the decision not to kill Suleimani because he was a general with the Iranian military, and the United States traditionally does not go around assassinating military generals. The last time we did this was in 1943 during World War II, when we took out a Japanese admiral. Iran is a sovereign state. Assassinating one of their officials is pretty much almost the same thing as assassinating the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, or a high-ranking American official, and then own up to it and take credit for it. It’s just not something that is normally often done in broad daylight. But we should also remember that, just a month ago, President Trump authorized the killing of Baghdadi that ISIS had, and he got a lot of very good and deserved credit for that. The administration now, today, will try to make the equivalent that General Suleimani is the same as Baghdadi, that he’s a terrorist, and he has certainly been behind many proxy terrorist acts by Iranian-backed groups in Yemen, in Lebanon, in Iraq and in Syria. So that has been increasing in recent months as the United States has choked off Iran economically.archived recording 1We’re following multiple breaking stories, including Iran’s seizure of at least one oil tanker in the Strait of Hormuz today, and there are now conflicting reports about whether a second tanker was seized. Iran is clearly messaging that they hold cards here, but as this continues to go on, what will Iran continue to do?archived recording 2Well, you know, Brianna, I think it’s important that we understand what’s motivating Iran right now. Look, since the United States pulled out of the Iran nuclear deal, and the administration imposed new sanctions on Iran, those sanctions have absolutely crippled Iran’s economy.helene cooperThat led the Iranian regime to start, as a lot of people at the Pentagon say, acting out, and you saw an increase in attacks from Iran, which has been punching out because it was being punched. And that is one of the reasons that the administration has now given for why this strike was taken. The other big reason, though, leads back to this, which is that the administration is saying that Suleimani was planning additional, even more high-profile attacks on the United States and on American interests and assets in the region, and that this was eminent.archived recording (mike pompeo)We could see that he was continuing down this path, that there were in fact plots that he was working on that were aimed directly at significant harm to American interests throughout the region, not just in Iraq.helene cooperYou know, you’re hearing that from General Milley, the head of the Joint Chiefs of Staff. You heard that on Sunday from Secretary of State Pompeo.archived recording (mike pompeo)We would’ve been culpably negligent had we not taken this action. The American people would have said that we weren’t doing the right thing to protect and defend American lives.helene cooperWhich is the argument that Suleimani was about to launch another imminent attack on American interests.michael barbaroHelene, of all the rationales that we’ve heard from the Trump administration, this seems to be the most important in terms of explaining why we would do this now, take out Suleimani. But of course, the U.S. has a very complicated history of using potential threats to American interests as a rationale for actions overseas, especially in the Middle East. So what does your reporting show about how we should be thinking about this explanation of an imminent attack?helene cooperThat’s such an interesting and key question, how we should be thinking about the administration rationale for this attack. Do we believe them, or do we not? Our reporting shows that it depends on where you stand. There is no question that General Suleimani has planned, and was continuing to plan, attacks against the United States through these groups, but that’s been going on for more than 15 years. So the question then becomes, why now? The administration says there was something imminent and big that was about to happen, and they appear to be basing that on intelligence reports that they’ve received about General Suleimani’s travels in the last few days leading up to the attack that took his life. But these same intel sources also say that he had been asked by Ayatollah Khamenei, who’s the supreme leader of Iran, to come back to Iran, that Khomeini had not authorized anything. He had requested permission, and he was not given it, and he was told to come back to Iran. So that then belies the whole question of “imminent.” Does it become something that is happening in two days, or something that hasn’t even been approved yet? So what the administration, then, will have to answer to the American people, if this leads to war, which it might, is whether or not this assassination was worth it.[music]michael barbaroWe’ll be right back.Helene, what has been the response in the Middle East in the days since the U.S. killed Suleimani?helene cooperThe response since the U.S. killed Suleimani in the Middle East has been huge.archived recording[YELLING AND CHANTING]helene cooperIn Iran, where protesters had, two weeks ago, been protesting against the regime, they had now united, apparently, behind the regime, and had turned their ire on the United States.archived recording[YELLING AND CHANTING]helene cooperYou’re seeing these familiar views of American flags being burned in the streets.archived recording[PROTESTORS SPEAKING]helene cooperThis massive outpouring of mourners.It’s certainly ramped up the anti-American sentiment in Iran.archived recording[MOURNING PRAYER]helene cooperMeanwhile, in Baghdad, you’re seeing similar outpourings of grief, but that’s been accompanied by the Iraqi Parliament voting unanimously this morning to expel the United States from Iraq. They didn’t put forth a timeline for withdrawal, so there’s still some wiggle room there. But particularly the Shiites and the Iraqi government are very, very angry at the United States right now.archived recording[YELLING AND CHANTING]helene cooperYou have to understand that Iraq is made up of three very distinct groups — Shiites, Sunnis and Kurds — but it is predominantly Shiite. Iran is Shiite as well, and the Iraqi government is very close to Iran. The Shiites in Iraq are particularly close to General Suleimani and view him, in many ways, as one of their own. They’re also upset, though, because this was a targeted killing in their country. So in much the same way that if something like this happened in the United States, the United States government would be upset. That’s another reason why the Iraqi government is so angry.michael barbaroHelene, can Iraq and its legislature do that? Can they kick the U.S. troops out of the country?helene cooperThey can. Iraq can say, you are no longer welcome. Remember, we are there at the invitation of the Iraqi government, ostensibly to fight the Islamic State. That battle is largely over. So yes, the Iraqi government can kick the United States military out of Iraq. Whether they do or not, whether this is posturing, I don’t know yet. Every couple of hours, you see something else. Right after the Iraqi Parliament voted, we saw the Pentagon announced that it was suspending the anti-ISIS coalition effort in Iraq. There are 4,000 American troops who’ve been there, and that the troops who are in Iraq will be focused on protecting the American citizens who are still in the country, but who are being advised to leave as soon as possible. It’s like 2013 all over again, when the Obama administration ended combat and pulled troops out of Iraq. And you saw the rise of ISIS because once the United States is gone and out of the country, these other factions are given more room to maneuver and more room to thrive. And so you can see how these events could lead to a resurgence of ISIS if the ground becomes clear for them to move around more freely.michael barbaroAnd wasn’t Suleimani also leading an Iranian militia that was an enemy of ISIS?helene cooperYes, there was a de facto cooperation between Suleimani and the United States in the fight against ISIS. They were both opposed to ISIS, and they were both fighting ISIS on the same turf.michael barbaroRight, which would have made, in a very narrow and complicated way, Suleimani an ally in our fight against ISIS, even though he’s our enemy in many other respects.helene cooperHe was an ally in our fight against ISIS. That is correct.[music]michael barbaroHelene, the ripple effects of all this are very complicated, but I wonder if there’s a simple way of thinking about this, which is that after all these months of provocation and response between the U.S. and Iran, that President Trump felt it was time for the U.S. to remind Iran that, at the end of the day, we are the military superpower, and our advantages over them are extraordinary and represent the kind of deterrent that means, whatever Iran’s ultimate response to this is, it will not be all that severe — that, in a sense, we just called Iran’s bluff.helene cooperThat would work if we hadn’t started this to begin with by pulling out of the Iranian nuclear deal, which was signed in 2015 under the Obama administration, and which was hated by President Trump and many Republicans.archived recording (donald trump)I have been in business a long time. I know deal-making, and let me tell you, this deal is catastrophic for America, for Israel, and for the whole of the Middle East.helene cooperThey viewed it as too weak, and said that it gave Iran rewards, as it did, by lifting sanctions for stopping their uranium enrichment, but did not address Iran’s misbehavior, and this is the General Suleimani-type misbehavior, in other areas.archived recording (donald trump)The problem here is fundamental. We’ve rewarded the world’s leading state sponsor of terror with $150 billion, and we received absolutely nothing in return.helene cooperWhen we pulled out of the nuclear deal, we reimposed sanctions on Iran, and put even stiffer sanctions on the country. We started to punish companies and basically told the world, you either do business with Iran, or you do business with America. And of course, most of the world chose America. That had the result of completely putting a strangle on the Iranian economy, and that is kind of what has led to the Iranian regime then starting escalating attacks against the United States, because this is a hard-line regime, and they clearly believe that if they’re hurting, they’re going to pull the United States down into the mud with them.michael barbaroBut doesn’t it still stand to reason that if that is the situation that we are in, in a post-nuclear deal world, where Iran decides that the only way that it can operate is with attacks through militias that it organizes against the U.S., that taking out a person like Suleimani is a reasonable option, given our superiority over Iran? We have nuclear weapons. They do not. We have superpower military capabilities. They do not. That doesn’t leave them with a whole lot of options. Does it?helene cooperBack in the ‘80s, there was this tanker war, where Iran, Iraq and the U.S. were all going after each other. And they made the Persian Gulf an impossible place, and the price of oil went way up. And it ended up with the United States, by mistake, shooting down an Iranian passenger jet. And Iran made a lot of noise after that happened, and then they quieted down. So there is precedent for that, but I think it’s easily as much of a chance that they don’t quiet. Iran has a whole lot of options to make us hurt. Certainly, the United States is much better equipped, but unless we’re actually suggesting that we’re going to drop a nuclear bomb on downtown Tehran, it’s never that easy once you get into a conventional war. So we went to war in Iraq, which lasted years, and which we are still seeing some of the consequences from. A war with Iran would be so much worse than any kind of war with Iraq. They’re way more sophisticated than Iraq ever was. They have the ability to make it hurt. So the question can be phrased as, is the United States willing to give up the blood and treasure it would take to subdue Iran? Which of course, it could, but it’s going to cost us something. So are we willing to pay that fee?[music]michael barbaroHelene, thank you. Thank you for talking to us on a Sunday. Thank you.helene cooperThank you, Michael.michael barbaroFor everything. We appreciate it.helene cooperAll right, bye-bye.michael barbaroOn Sunday, Iran’s leaders and their allies began to openly discuss plans for retaliation against the United States, saying that they would target America’s military bases and its soldiers. In an interview with CNN, a high-level adviser to Iran’s supreme leader said, quote, “The only thing that can end this period of war is for the Americans to receive a blow that is equal to the blow that they have inflicted.” On Twitter, President Trump warned Iran against such a response, writing, quote, “They attacked us, & we hit back. If they attack again, which I would strongly advise them not to do, we will hit them harder than they have ever been hit before!”We’ll be right back.Here’s what else you need to know today.archived recording (elizabeth warren)Look, it was a targeted attack on a government official, a high-ranking military official for the government of Iran, and what it’s done has moved this country closer to war. We are not safer today than we were before Donald Trump acted.michael barbaroIn interviews on Sunday, the leading Democratic candidates for president, including Senator Elizabeth Warren and Mayor Pete Buttigieg, on CNN, challenged the Trump administration’s rationale for killing General Suleimani and predicted that it could backfire on the U.S.archived recording (pete buttigieg)Now, let’s be clear, Qassim Suleimani was a bad figure. He has American blood on his hands. None of us should shed a tear for his death. But just because he deserved it doesn’t mean it was the right strategic move. This is about consequences.michael barbaroIn a statement, former Vice President Joe Biden said that the president, quote, “just tossed a stick of dynamite into a tinderbox,” and Senator Bernie Sanders, at a campaign stop, accused the president of violating his campaign pledge.archived recording (bernie sanders)Trump promised to end endless wars. Tragically, his actions now put us on the path to another war, potentially one that could be even worse than before.michael barbaroAnd Australia’s government said that it would deploy the country’s military to fight a set of catastrophic fires that have already burned more than 12 million acres, an area larger than Switzerland, killed at least 24 people, and killed or injured hundreds of millions of animals. The Times reports that the fires are now so large and hot that they are creating their own weather patterns, further fueling the blazes. That’s it for “The Daily.” I’m Michael Barbaro. See you tomorrow.But so far, it has unleashed a host of unanticipated consequences that could dramatically alter where the United States operates. Increasingly, the killing appeared to be generating effects far beyond the United States’ ability to control.That may include Iran’s nuclear future.On Sunday, the Iranian government said it was abandoning its “final limitations in the nuclear deal,” the international agreement intended to prevent Tehran from developing nuclear weapons. The decision leaves no restrictions on Iran’s nuclear program, the statement said, including on uranium enrichment, production, research and expansion.Iran will, however, continue its cooperation with the International Atomic Energy Agency and return to the nuclear limits if the economic sanctions imposed on it are removed and Iran’s interests guaranteed, the government said. American sanctions have hit Iran’s oil-based economy particularly hard.General Suleimani was a towering figure both in Iran and across the Middle East, where he cultivated proxy militias in Iraq, Syria and Lebanon. Since he was killed in an American drone strike at the Baghdad airport on Friday alongside a powerful Iraqi militia leader, Iran and its partners have stepped up calls for vengeance, although they have yet to follow through on the threats. American allies have largely kept quiet and distanced themselves from the killing so as not to put themselves in the line of fire.VideoThe body of Maj. Gen. Qassim Suleimani was brought back to Iran. Mourners flooded the streets, weeping and holding up posters of the general, as his coffin moved through the crowds.CreditCredit...Mohammad Taghi/Tasnim News, via Agence France-Presse — Getty ImagesLawmakers in Iraq voted on Sunday to require the government to end the presence of American troops in the country after Mr. Trump ordered the killing on Iraqi soil.The vote will not be final until it is signed by the prime minister, and it was unclear whether Iraq’s current caretaker government had the authority to end the relationship with the United States military.Few doubted, however, that the country would take whatever legal actions were necessary to compel a United States departure over the coming months. Prime Minister Adel Abdul Mahdi drafted the language and submitted the bill approved by Parliament on Sunday, leaving little doubt about his support. Mr. Trump warned Iraq on Sunday that there would be dire consequences for expelling American forces.“We have a very extraordinarily expensive air base that’s there,” he said. “It cost billions of dollars to build, long before my time.”“If they do ask us to leave,” he added, “if we don’t do it in a very friendly basis, we will charge them sanctions like they’ve never seen before ever. It’ll make Iranian sanctions look somewhat tame.”Although the vote in Parliament was 170-0, lawmakers were more divided on the issue of ousting American troops than that tally may suggest.Many of the 328 members of Parliament, primarily those representing the country’s ethnic Kurdish and Sunni Muslim minorities, did not attend the session and did not vote. Iraq’s Shiite Muslim majority dominates the Iraqi government.While groups that grew out of Shiite militia organizations have pushed hard for the expulsion, Sunni Muslim factions and the Kurds have wanted the United States to stay. The legislation threads a fine needle: While using strong language demanding that the government “end any foreign presence on Iraqi soil and prevent the use of Iraqi airspace, soil and water for any reason” by foreign forces, it gives no timetable for doing so. ImageCredit...Iraqi Prime Minister's Press OfficeIt would end the mission approved in 2014 that gave the United States the task of helping Iraqi forces fight the Islamic State. That agreement gave the Americans substantial latitude to launch attacks and use Iraqi airspace. But the measure would leave in place the Strategic Framework Agreement, which allows an American troop presence in Iraq in some form, although only “at the invitation of the Iraqi government.”On Sunday, the American-led coalition in Iraq and Syria said it would pause its yearslong mission of fighting the Islamic State and training local forces in both countries.A pullout of the estimated 5,200 American troops in Iraq could cripple the fight against the Islamic State, or ISIS, possibly facilitating its resurgence. A smaller contingent of about 1,000 United States troops are in eastern Syria.The general’s killing unleashed calls for vengeance in both Iraq and Iran, and reinforced solidarity among hard-liners and moderates in Iran against the United States. After the vote in Iraq calling on the government to expel American troops, Iranian officials reacted with congratulatory messages.Hesameddin Ashena, a top adviser to President Hassan Rouhani, wrote on Twitter, “Expanding friendship with our neighbors and domestic unity are the best gifts for protecting our national security.”In Iraq, the attack was seen as a violation of the nation’s sovereignty. On Sunday, Iraq’s Foreign Ministry said it had summoned the American ambassador in Baghdad.In Iran, it was viewed as tantamount to an act of war. Hossein Dehghan, a military adviser to Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, told CNN that Iran’s response would include an attack on “U.S. military targets.” As the Middle East braced for Iranian retaliation, which analysts said was all but inevitable and American officials said they expected within weeks, Tehran and Washington ratcheted up the rhetoric.Members of Iran’s Parliament chanted, “Death to America!” en masse in the chamber on Sunday in protest over General Suleimani’s killing, television footage showed.The chants came as Mr. Trump fired off a series of Twitter ripostes to the growing anger, saying that the United States had already chosen 52 targets inside of Iran.Iran summoned the Swiss envoy representing American interests in Tehran on Sunday to protest Mr. Trump’s threat that Washington would target Iranian sites. And Mr. Trump’s tweet became a rallying cry among Iranians, many of whom shared it widely on social media with the message, “Attend the funeral for our cultural heritage.”Iran’s information and telecommunications minister, Mohammad Javad Azari-Jahromi, denounced Mr. Trump as “a terrorist in a suit.”“Like ISIS, Like Hitler, Like Genghis!” Mr. Jahromi said on Twitter. ”They all hate cultures. Trump is a terrorist in a suit. He will learn history very soon that NOBODY can defeat ‘the Great Iranian Nation & Culture.’”ImageCredit...Mohammad Hassanzadeh/Tasnim News Agency, via Associated PressThe attack on the Iranian general left America’s European allies scrambling to address the safety of their troops in the Middle East and complaining that they had been given no warning about the strike. European leaders called for a de-escalation of the tensions between Iran and the United States.The European Union’s foreign policy chief, Josep Borrell, invited Mr. Zarif, the Iranian foreign minister, to Brussels for talks. Mr. Borrell said that he had spoken with Mr. Zarif, urging “Iran to exercise restraint and carefully consider any reaction to avoid further escalation, which harms the entire region and its people.”Germany’s foreign minister, Heiko Maas, said he would seek direct talks with Iran. Europe wants to continue the fight against the Islamic State, Mr. Maas said, and Germany is anxious about the safety of its troops training Iraqi forces. Germany’s defense minister, Annegret Kramp-Karrenbauer, said in a statement: “Iraq cannot be allowed to sink into chaos, and certainly not under the control of extremists. Therefore, it is important not to let up now in the fight against Islamic State.”In general, the Europeans did not specifically criticize Mr. Trump for his decision, and share the American view that Iran has been a destabilizing force in the Middle East and a supporter of terrorism. At the same time, no European government praised the killing of General Suleimani, emphasizing instead the increased risks to their citizens, troops and interests.Prime Minister Boris Johnson of Britain was reported to be angry with Mr. Trump for not informing him or other allies with troops in Iraq about the decision to kill General Suleimani. While carried out by the Americans, the killing is seen as having put all European citizens and troops in Iraq and the wider region at heightened risk.Mr. Johnson, who was said to be returning early from a vacation in the Caribbean, is expected to discuss the issues with Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany, President Emmanuel Macron of France and Mr. Trump in the next few days, a Downing Street spokeswoman said.Secretary of State Mike Pompeo complained that the response by European allies had not been “helpful.” He told Fox News in an interview: “The Brits, the French, the Germans all need to understand that what we did, what the Americans did, saved lives in Europe as well.”Dominic Raab, Britain’s foreign minister, who is scheduled to travel to Washington this week to meet Mr. Pompeo, said all countries had a right to defend themselves.Asked in an interview with the BBC whether the killing was legal, Mr. Raab said, “There is a right of self-defense.” He said he did not agree that the killing was an act of war, and described General Suleimani to Sky News, another British broadcaster, as a “regional menace.”But Mr. Raab also said that he had spoken to Iraq’s prime minister and president to urge a de-escalation of tensions in the region, and that he planned to speak to Iran’s foreign minister.In particular, the Europeans have tried to persuade Iran to keep to the terms of the 2015 nuclear deal, known as the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action; Mr. Trump pulled the United States out of it in May 2018, reimposing harsh economic sanctions on Tehran. Iran had slowly abandoned its adherence to parts of the deal before its announcement on Sunday.The Europeans are also working to keep the Strait of Hormuz open to shipping. About one-third of the world’s oil tankers use the waterway, which Iran has intermittently threatened to close. Last July, Iranian forces seized a British-flagged tanker in the Strait, trying to pressure the world to allow its oil exports despite American sanctions.ImageCredit...Arash Khamooshi for The New York TimesOn Saturday, Britain’s defense minister, Ben Wallace, said he had ordered the country’s navy to accompany all British-flagged ships through the Strait of Hormuz.France has also stepped up diplomatic initiatives to ease tensions. President Macron spoke with President Barham Salih of Iraq and the de facto ruler of the United Arab Emirates, Crown Prince Mohammed bin Zayed of Abu Dhabi.On Sunday, Kataib Hezbollah, an Iraqi armed group close to Iran, warned Iraqi troops on bases that also house United States forces that they should stay at least 3,000 feet from their American counterparts starting on Sunday evening, and not allow themselves to be used as human shields. In Lebanon, Hassan Nasrallah, the head of Hezbollah, another armed group backed by Iran, also called for revenge, telling his followers that United States bases, ships and soldiers in the region were “fair targets,” while American civilians were not. Alissa J. Rubin reported from Baghdad, Ben Hubbard from Beirut, Farnaz Fassihi from New York and Steven Erlanger from Brussels. Hwaida Saad and Maggie Haberman contributed reporting.