    A shift in public opinion could make a difference at the Court. | AP Photo, Reuters The tide might be turning in favor of gay marriage, but that doesn’t mean the Supreme Court will be swept up in it.  For all the toasting in Washington and excitement among gay rights groups about the historic oral arguments this week, there’s still a chance their set of cases could culminate in a loss.  Under the worst-case scenario for gay rights groups, the court could uphold both California’s Proposition 8 and the federal law Defense of Marriage Act — extending no new rights to gay couples looking to marry or take advantage of federal benefits extended to opposite-sex couples.  But gay rights activists say this wouldn’t have the impact of Plessy v. Ferguson — the 1896 decision that left “separate but equal” the law of the land until Brown v. Board of Education six decades later.  ( Also on POLITICO: Culture wars return — with a twist)  Instead, they say, they would still leave the court in a better position than when they started their legal trek because public opinion has swung in their favor, supporters have been galvanized and about 100 prominent Republicans signed a brief publicly endorsing gay marriage.  “Even if you lose the case, and I think that’s very unlikely, you would say that the case has been a success because it’s changed public opinion so dramatically,” said Richard Socarides, a former adviser to President Bill Clinton. “It’s really unbelievable what a successful communications and litigation strategy has combined to do in such a short time.”  Plus, they don’t think they’re going to lose big at all.  “There’s zero possibility,” said University of Chicago law professor Geoffrey Stone.  One key source of confidence is Justice Anthony Kennedy’s majority ruling 17 years ago in Romer v. Evans, a case throwing out a Colorado ballot measure that banned any special protections for gays and lesbians. Many analysts believe that decision and a 2003 ruling he wrote banning sodomy laws essentially guarantee Kennedy will vote to find the Defense of Marriage Act unconstitutional. With the four Democratic-appointed justices thought to favor at least that much of a win for gay rights, Kennedy would make a majority.  ( Also on POLITICO: Poll: Court approval near record low)  Other potential GOP pickups for the pro-same sex marriage forces are Chief Justice John Roberts and Justice Samuel Alito.  For those reading tea leaves, there are signs Roberts could be in play. While in private practice in 1995, Roberts gave pro bono help to the legal team preparing briefs and oral arguments for the Colorado case. And Roberts is using some of his personal allotment of tickets to this week’s arguments to allow a lesbian cousin and her partner to attend oral arguments, the Los Angeles Times reported.  Justices Antonin Scalia and Clarence Thomas are considered pretty certain votes against same-sex marriage. Scalia defended the Colorado measure as “a modest attempt by seemingly tolerant Coloradans to preserve traditional sexual mores against the efforts of a politically powerful minority to revise those mores through use of the laws.” Thomas joined the opinion.  ( PHOTOS: 21 landmark SCOTUS rulings)  There is one potential wild card on the left: Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg. Though she was a pioneering litigator for the American Civil Liberties Union on gender issues, she has repeatedly said she thinks the Roe v. Wade decision went too far because it forced a consensus that many Americans had not arrived at and led to a backlash.  “It’s not that the judgment was wrong, but it moved too far too fast,” she said at Columbia Law School last year. “The court made a decision that made every abortion law in the country invalid, even the most liberal. … Things might have turned out differently if the court had been more restrained.” But even a narrow victory or a narrow loss would the send the fight back to ballot boxes and state legislatures, where gay rights groups believe they will at least be playing a stronger hand.  In that forum, the shift in public opinion will make the real difference, argued Harvard law professor Michael Klarman.  “I don’t see any way they really lose big, even if they lose at the Supreme Court,” said Klarman. “It’s reached a tipping point.”  Former Rep. Barney Frank (D-Mass.) agreed.  “It’s a setback in the sense we have to live with these things,” Frank said. “But it doesn’t take away from where we are now. … It’s better to win than to lose, sure, but I don’t think that would stop the march towards marriage.”  Part of the key difference this time: More Republicans are on record in support of same-sex marriage.  ( Also on POLITICO: Pols who evolved on gay marriage)  “In the worst scenario, the court gets it wrong, and we continue the momentum that has brought us from zero to many states and increasing shares of the public having the freedom to marry and already a supermajority of support,” said Evan Wolfson of Freedom to Marry. “All of that will set the stage of coming back before the court sooner rather than later, possibly with different justices and a different climate.”  In the cases before the court, social conservatives and Republican leaders in the House of Representatives are urging the justices to leave the same-sex marriage issues to the democratic process. The implication is that if an acceptance of gay marriage is sweeping the land, there’s little harm in the justices butting out.  “With an issue as divisive and fast-moving as same-sex marriage, the correct answer is to leave this issue to the democratic process,” lawyer Paul Clement wrote in the House’s brief. “In that process, there is a premium on persuading opponents, rather than labeling them as bigots motivated by animus. And the democratic process allows compromise and way-stations, whereas constitutionalizing an issue yields a one-size-fits-all-solution that tends to harden the views of those who lose out at the courthouse, rather than the ballot box.”  ( PHOTOS: Who's who on the Supreme Court)  The notion that same-sex marriage should be left to the rough and tumble of the political system may seem conservative or even antiquated to some, but until 26 days ago it was President Barack Obama’s stated position set forth again and again in a series of interviews and public appearances.  “New York is doing exactly what democracies are supposed to do. There’s a debate; there’s deliberation about what it means here in New York to treat people fairly in the eyes of the law,” Obama said at a political fundraiser in 2011 as the Empire State’s Legislature was debating a law authorizing gay marriage.  ( WATCH: Camping at SCOTUS: Why they do it)  “That’s the power of our democratic system. It’s not always pretty. There are setbacks. There are frustrations. But in grappling with tough and, at times, emotional issues in legislatures and in courts and at the ballot box, and, yes, around the dinner table and in the office hallways, and sometimes even in the Oval Office, slowly but surely we find the way forward. That’s how we will achieve change that is lasting,” Obama said. Some on both sides of the gay marriage debate saw Obama’s stance as pure political expediency by a politician searching for a comfortable spot amid shifting public opinion. But his remarks are consistent with statements he made long before he ran for the presidency, when discussing African-Americans and the civil rights movement.  “One of the tragedies of the civil rights movement was that the civil rights movement became so court-focused, I think, there was a tendency to lose track of the political and organizing activities on the ground that are able to bring about the coalitions of power through which you bring about redistributive change and in some ways we still suffer from that,” Obama told Chicago radio station WBEZ-FM in 2001.  The criticism Obama leveled at the civil rights movement is also a fairly common one among academics.  “The president clearly believes from his time as a law professor that it’s possible to get too invested in courts,” said Klarman. “There’s always been a big argument among law professors, historians and social theorists about how invested you should be in politics. And a lot of people believe the civil rights movement and the NAACP were too focused on litigation. … That’s where Obama is coming from.”  In fact, NAACP attorney — and eventual Supreme Court Justice — Thurgood Marshall initially opposed sit-ins at lunch counters in the South because he thought the battle for equality was best fought through the legal system and not by breaking the law, even through trespassing, Klarman noted. Those like the Rev. Martin Luther King Jr., who favored direct action and protest in conjunction with litigation, ultimately won the argument.  Nevertheless, Obama’s suggestion that it was wise or beneficial to leave much of the gay rights debate to the states rubbed some liberals the wrong way. That approach would have led the Supreme Court not to ban laws against interracial marriage as it did in Loving v. Virginia in 1967.  “I’m sure Obama would have preferred leaving Loving to the state process,” Geoffrey Stone, the Chicago law professor, said sarcastically. “The notion that this should be resolved as a state matter is, in my view, outrageous,” he said, noting that leaving the matter completely to the states would likely keep gay marriage bans in place for decades in some states.  As the Prop. 8 challenge went forward in California, the Justice Department never weighed in. Even when it reached the 9th Circuit Court of Appeals, the federal government did not file a brief. However, in 2011, the administration stopped defending DOMA and began arguing it is unconstitutional.  Just last month, the Justice Department finally weighed in on Prop. 8, asking the Supreme Court to toss out the gay marriage ban in California and effectively in eight other states that have broad civil union rights for gay couples. However, the federal government brief doesn’t explicitly argue for a national right to same sex marriage — even though many other briefs filed in the case do.  While gay rights advocates are portraying this week’s arguments as a watershed event, not so long ago many of them were nervous — almost panicked — about a case seeking a national right to same-sex marriage going before the justices this soon.  In fact, major gay rights groups were once so opposed to challenging California’s same-sex marriage ban in federal court that an acrimonious fight broke out between those who favored an immediate challenge and those who didn’t.  “You have unrelentingly and unequivocally acted to undermine this case even before it was filed,” American Foundation for Equal Rights President Chad Griffin wrote in a July 2009 letter to the National Center of Lesbian Rights.  The gay rights movement also seems to have overcome its initial skepticism about taking same-sex marriage to the Supreme Court now. One indication: Griffin, the California political consultant who spearheaded the campaign to overturn Prop. 8, was named last year as the president of the country’s largest gay rights organization, the Human Rights Campaign.  Supporters of Prop. 8 and DOMA see a parallel to the abortion debate several decades ago and hope that means Ginsburg might defect, at least partially, from the expected liberal position.  “It’s very similar to the discussion that was going on in this country in the late 1960s and 1970s over abortion,” said Chapman University law school professor John Eastman, who warns of a potential backlash if the court mandates same-sex marriage rights. “The difficulty with what happened in Roe was that it shut off the process at the moment of its greatest intensity. … The court’s decision caused the pendulum to swing back the other way.”  Prop. 8 opponents say even the broadest possible gay-rights ruling wouldn’t generate the kind of backlash that Roe did because the shift in favor of same-sex marriage rights isn’t reversible.  ”The only real issue I could see to [not push these cases] is if there would be so much backlash, you’d be sorry you won,” said Klarman. “It’s unbelievable how quickly things have changed. I don’t see any reason to be hesitant in court right now.”  Reid Epstein and Carrie Budoff Brown contributed to this report. 
