This live coverage has ended. For the latest coronavirus news, click here.As the legal battle continues over the Biden administration’s vaccine mandate for private businesses, the White House is calling for employers to adhere to the new rules if their business has 100 or more employees.Deputy press secretary Karine Jean-Pierre said Monday that employers “should not wait” for legal matters to be settled before choosing to follow the order, which would take effect Jan. 4 unless blocked by the courts.“We say do not wait to take actions that will keep your workplace safe. It is important and critical to do, and waiting to get more people vaccinated will lead to more outbreaks and sickness,” she said.A federal appeals panel in New Orleans temporarily suspended enforcement of the administration’s rule on Saturday in response to a lawsuit filed against the mandate by GOP-led states and businesses.The Justice Department filed a response to that decision on Monday, and more developments are expected in coming days.Here’s what to knowThousands of federal workers sought religious exemptions to avoid getting vaccinated against the coronavirus ahead of the Monday deadline set by the government.The United States reopened its international borders Monday to vaccinated travelers from 33 countries who can provide proof of a recent negative coronavirus test.Under a policy being rolled out in Los Angeles on Monday, many types of indoor businesses will be required to verify their patrons’ vaccination status. Official enforcement of the policy, called SafePassLA, is set to begin Nov. 29.The United States is finally reopening its land border to Canadians — but Canada’s rules could deter many.Photos: International travelers make their journey to the U.S. as borders reopenReturn to menuAfter 20 months, the U.S. border is once again open. On Monday, the land and air border reopened to international travelers from 33 countries who have proof of vaccination and a recent negative coronavirus test.The border reopening also follows grim milestones that serve as a reminder that the pandemic is not over: More than 5 million people have died globally, and 250 million coronavirus cases have been reported.Analysis: Vaccine politics only worsened the partisan divide in covid-19 deathsReturn to menuSince the coronavirus pandemic first emerged early last year, more Americans living in counties that voted for Joe Biden in 2020 have died from covid-19 than have Americans living in counties that voted for Donald Trump. That’s also true in 2021, albeit more narrowly.But that also ignores a critical consideration: there are far more people in counties that voted for Biden, since those counties are home to most of America’s largest cities. Adjusted for population, 245 out of every 100,000 residents of Trump-voting counties have died since the beginning of the pandemic, compared to 206 out of every 100,000 residents of Biden-voting counties. This year, the gap is wider: 146 out of 100,000 in Trump-voting counties, 101 in Biden-voting ones.And if we look solely at the places where Trump or Biden won most heavily, the gap grows wider still. In 2021, counties that Trump won with at least 60 percent of the vote saw 164 deaths per 100,000 people. Counties that Biden won with at least that level of support saw only 91 deaths per 100,000.People ‘unvaccinated by choice’ in Singapore stop receiving free covid-19 treatmentReturn to menuEighty-five percent of people in Singapore eligible for coronavirus vaccines are fully vaccinated, and 18 percent have received booster shots.But the Singaporean government said Monday that it will no longer cover the medical costs of people “unvaccinated by choice,” who make up the bulk of remaining new covid-19 cases and hospitalizations in the city-state.“Currently, unvaccinated persons make up a sizable majority of those who require intensive inpatient care, and disproportionately contribute to the strain on our health care resources,” the Ministry of Health said in a statement Monday.“Covid-19 patients who are unvaccinated by choice may still tap on regular health care financing arrangements to pay for their bills where applicable,” the ministry added.Republican Reps. Greene, Clyde fined again for refusing to wear masks on the House floorReturn to menuGeorgia Republican Reps. Marjorie Taylor Greene and Andrew Clyde were fined by the House Ethics Committee on Monday for defying House rules and refusing to wear masks on the House floor.Greene has been disciplined at least 22 times for not wearing a mask on the House floor since the rule was first established earlier this year because of the coronavirus pandemic and has had more than $50,000 deducted from her annual congressional salary of $174,000. According to a Monday news release from the committee, Greene was fined three times in late September and once on Oct. 4.The committee had previously made public seven other occasions in which the congresswoman had been caught unmasked. The actual number of her violations, however, is higher. Last week, a spokesman for Greene told The Washington Post that the congresswoman has been fined almost two dozen times. A letter from Sergeant-at-Arms William Walker sent to Greene in late October said she had been disciplined 21 times, the dates matching some published in the Monday release. Only the Oct. 4 date made public on Monday hadn’t been reported before.U.S. lifts travel ban on 33 countries as Europe cases surgeReturn to menuFrom Dublin, Sao Paolo, Brussels and other cities around the world, international visitors spilled into U.S. airports Monday in joyous celebrations that marked the end of a pandemic-related travel ban that kept them separated from loved ones for more than 18 months.“On behalf of the U.S. travel industry: WELCOME,” the U.S. Travel Association said in a tweet Monday morning. “Today marks a monumental and long-awaited day for travelers, long-separated friends and family who can now safely reunite with loved ones.”The end of a 33-nation ban that kept most non-U. S. citizens out of the country took on a celebratory air Monday, throwing a lifeline to an industry seeking to rebound from the pandemic. It also comes as U.S. airlines, which have seen a surge in demand from domestic leisure travelers, are struggling to overcome staffing shortages ahead of the busy travel holiday season.Key coronavirus updates from around the worldReturn to menuHere’s what to know about the top coronavirus stories around the globe from news service reports.The decision on whether to allow coronavirus vaccines for children will be made behind closes doors in Israel, health officials said, so experts can speak freely at a meeting Wednesday.Russia’s Kremlin spokesman said it was too early to tell whether a mandatory nine-day break for workers had any impact on record coronavirus infections and deaths. Russians returned to work Monday.Coronavirus restrictions may return to Denmark, Prime Minister Mette Frederiksen said, as cases have increased.Fans of soccer home games in Turkey can attend matches up to full capacity with proof of coronavirus vaccination or previous infection, the Turkish Football Federation said, adding that away fans will not be allowed.Northern Ireland’s health minister, Robin Swann, has sued Van Morrison for defamation after the singer called Swann “very dangerous” for his handling of coronavirus restrictions in June.First lady Jill Biden focuses on White House push to vaccinate children at Va. school with a special distinctionReturn to menuFirst lady Jill Biden spoke to families Monday in front of a sign with the words “You did it!” to celebrate the arrival of vaccines for some of the youngest Americans.“They are great, effective and free,” she told about 30 vaccinated students who’d gathered in a school gym in McLean, Va., with their parents. About 260 kids were expected to be vaccinated Monday — mostly from this historic school of about 355 students. Franklin Sherman Elementary School in McLean was the first school in the nation to host a polio vaccine clinic. More than 100 second-graders were vaccinated in one day in April 1954.The first lady visited the Northern Virginia school to kick off the Biden administration’s nationwide effort to encourage parents to vaccinate children ages 5-11. The CDC signed off on giving the Pfizer-BioNTech shots to young children last week after nearly 2 million kids were sickened by the coronavirus since the beginning of the pandemic.“We know millions of parents are eager to get their children vaccinated, and with this decision, we now have recommended that about 28 million children receive a COVID-19 vaccine,” CDC Director Rochelle Walensky previously said in a statement. “As a mom, I encourage parents with questions to talk to their pediatrician, school nurse or local pharmacist.”Biden’s visit to the school was the first from the White House to a pediatric coronavirus vaccination clinic since the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention recommended the use of the pediatric Pfizer vaccine last week.Biden sought to reassure the parents in the room of the safety of the vaccine, an issue of great concern to some of those who are still expressing hesitancy.“Joe and our team have been working every day to give you what you need to keep your family safe in this pandemic,” she said. “And parents, I’m so excited that, now, you have a new way to do just that: a vaccine for children, 5 and up.“So, here’s what I want you to remember and share with other parents: The vaccine is the best way to protect your children against covid-19,” she added.Vasav Ramineni, a student at the school, read a letter to the first lady thanking her for being a teacher.“I hope covid is over soon and everyone gets vaccinated,” he wrote.Surgeon General Vivek Murthy joined Biden, as did Rep. Jennifer Wexton (D-Va.).6 questions about U.S. borders reopening, answeredReturn to menuThe United States on Monday lifted a travel ban that had been in place for nearly two years, reopening borders for vaccinated travelers from 33 countries. Airports and land-border checkpoints were the scenes of jubilant reunions. Airlines are bracing for an influx of travelers in the coming weeks and months, including binational couples and families who had been separated.Here’s what to know about the changes in the U.S. international travel policy.White House says employers shouldn’t wait for court cases to resolve before implementing vaccine mandates Return to menuWhite House principal deputy press secretary Karine Jean-Pierre said U.S. companies with more than 100 employees should go ahead and follow the Biden administration’s new rule requiring them to mandate coronavirus vaccines for their workers or do regular testing by Jan. 4 regardless of pending decisions on lawsuits against the rule.“We think people should not wait,” Jean-Pierre told reporters. “We say do not wait to take actions that will keep your workplace safe. It is important and critical to do, and waiting to get more people vaccinated will lead to more outbreaks and sickness.”The administration unveiled the emergency rule Thursday, with Biden saying the requirements will “protect our workers.” On Saturday, a federal appeals court in New Orleans temporarily suspended enforcement of the rule because it is considering a lawsuit filed against the mandate by GOP-led states and businesses.The Justice Department has until 5 p.m. Monday to respond to a request for a more permanent halt to the mandate filed by a group of plaintiffs that includes Louisiana Attorney General Jeff Landry (R).Jean-Pierre said the administration is confident the rule will remain.“I also want to step back for a second because there is precedent here,” she said. “The Department of Labor has a responsibility to keep workers safe and the legal authority to do so.”JetBlue CEO says nearly 99 percent of staff will be vaccinatedReturn to menuFewer than 300 JetBlue employees have told management that they will not get vaccinated against the coronavirus, representing just a fraction of the airline’s workforce, and highlighting the success of corporate mandates to compel workers to receive the shots.JetBlue’s chief executive, Robin Hayes, said the company has been encouraging employees over several months to receive the vaccines.“We’ve been working for months now persuading people to get vaccinated, doing vaccine drives, holding sessions to explain the benefits of getting vaccinated to our crew members,” he said in an interview on MSNBC. JetBlue employs around 21,000 people, he said, which amounts to a company vaccination rate of about 98.6 percent.Last month the airline was among several other major U.S. carriers that announced vaccine mandates for staff, coming on the heels of President Biden’s sweeping new federal vaccine requirements that cover tens of millions of Americans, including private-sector employees and federal contractors.The new federal rule ordered companies of 100 or more employees to institute mandatory vaccinations for their staff or weekly testing, with a deadline of Jan. 4.“From what I’m seeing, I think that number is going to get smaller as we get closer to the deadline,” said Hayes, referring to the JetBlue workers declining to get the vaccines.Some Republican officials are contesting the federal policy, however. And last week a federal appeals court temporarily stopped the new vaccine requirement and gave the Justice Department time to respond to a legal challenge that seeks to permanently halt the mandate.Coronavirus falsehoods are widespread, new survey findsReturn to menuMisinformation relating to the coronavirus continues to be pervasive, making it challenging to reach people with accurate information, according to a new survey report from the Kaiser Family Foundation.About 78 percent of adults said they had heard at least one out of eight different false statements about the coronavirus that they believed to be true or were unsure about being true, according to the findings. A third of adults believed or were uncertain about at least four false statements. False statements included coronavirus numbers being over exaggerated by health officials and vaccines being laced with microchips.Researchers found that belief in misinformation correlated with vaccination status and political beliefs. Unvaccinated adults and Republicans were much more likely to believe in or be unsure about false information when compared with vaccinated adults and Democrats.The survey also showed that trust in news sources also correlated with belief in misinformation.The number of adults who held about four misconceptions was small — between 11 and 16 percent — if they trusted coronavirus information from news outlets such as CNN, NPR or MSNBC, researchers said.However, the share of adults who believed in at least four misconceptions about the coronavirus was larger if they trusted information from One America News, Fox News and Newsmax.Researchers noted that their findings couldn’t determine if adults are exposed to misinformation from those news sources or if the kind of people who choose to trust those outlets are the same people who are inclined to believe untrue information for other reasons.The school that pioneered polio shots will give kids the coronavirus vaccine, too Return to menuThrough the long tunnel of time, Jackie French Lonergan still remembers the day very clearly. It was April 26, 1954, and she was a second-grader at Franklin Sherman Elementary in McLean, Va., a little girl with dark hair and a gaptoothed grin.Lonergan lined up with her classmates in the school’s multipurpose room, she recalls, and when she got to the front, she glanced over briefly as her family doctor, in white lab coat and with lollipops at the ready, jabbed her upper arm with a hypodermic needle. Nearby, cameras flashed, capturing the historic moment for posterity.Lonergan’s parents had quickly signed the permission slip, worrying little or not at all about the fact that their daughter and 81 other second-graders at Franklin Sherman were about to be guinea pigs — the very first children in the country to receive the polio vaccine as part of a massive national trial to test the immunization before offering it to the general public.A Washington hospital deeply divided over mandatory vaccinesReturn to menuDAYTON, Wash. — The state’s vaccination deadline for health-care workers was less than a week away when Shane McGuire called his HR department for another daily update. The chief executive of tiny Dayton General Hospital listened to the phone ring as he squeezed a stress ball and straightened the sign he’d hung on his office door in the latest effort to unite a fracturing staff: “We Are One.”“How’s it looking for us on the mandate?” he asked, when the head of HR picked up.“You mean in terms of the emotional fallout, or just numbers?”“Numbers. I can handle the numbers,” McGuire said, and a few minutes later he opened his email and studied the list that had been dividing this rural hospital in southeast Washington state since the governor issued one of the country’s first vaccine mandates in August. Dozens of McGuire’s employees were still marked as unvaccinated. At least 15 were in the process of applying for religious or medical exemptions, a few had already quit in protest, and many more were facing termination unless they decided to vaccinate against the coronavirus in the next five days before the mandate went into effect.White House ‘confident’ vaccine mandate is legal after court freezeReturn to menuA top White House official expressed confidence that President Biden’s new vaccine mandate for private companies would proceed on pace with its Jan. 4 deadline for implementation, even after a federal appeals court on Saturday temporarily suspended it.While “the effectiveness of that vaccine requirement is frozen,” White House Chief of Staff Ron Klain told NBC’s Chuck Todd on “Meet the Press” on Sunday, “I’m quite confident that when this finally gets fully adjudicated, not just a temporary order, the validity of this requirement will be upheld.”Calling the mandate for most workers to be vaccinated “common sense,” Klain added that if the Occupational Safety and Health Administration, the federal workplace safety regulator, “can tell people to wear a hard hat on the job, to be careful around chemicals, it could put in place these simple measures to keep our workers safe.”The Biden administration on Thursday unveiled a new emergency rule mandating that companies with more than 100 employees require coronavirus vaccination for their workers or do regular testing starting Jan. 4. The rule, which has been in the works for months, has been hotly contested by Republican lawmakers who view it as an unacceptable infringement on workers’ and businesses’ rights.In a statement issued on the same day the mandate was announced, Biden said vaccine requirements “protect our workers” and “are working.” He added that “while I would have much preferred that requirements not become necessary, too many people remain unvaccinated for us to get out of this pandemic for good.” Meanwhile, senior administration officials speaking to reporters on the condition of anonymity defended OSHA’s legal authority to enforce workplace vaccine requirements.A panel of three judges appointed by Republican presidents in the U.S. Court of Appeals for the 5th Circuit wrote Saturday that it had “cause to believe there are grave statutory and constitutional issues with the mandate.” The panel stayed the mandate while the court assesses it in more depth.The ruling came in response to a lawsuit filed Friday by a group of plaintiffs including Louisiana Attorney General Jeff Landry (R). On Saturday, Landry called the stay a “major win for the liberty of job creators and their employees.”The unsigned, four-paragraph order from the panel temporarily stops Biden’s mandate but is not a ruling on the merits of the policy. The court gave the Justice Department until 5 p.m. Monday to respond to the plaintiffs’ request for a more permanent halt to the mandate, and it gave the plaintiffs until 5 p.m. Tuesday to respond to the government.