 Despite being in the midst of a heated presidential campaign, President Barack Obama isn’t letting Congress off the hook.  “Their work isn’t finished,” Obama said in his weekly address released Saturday. But, “last week, without much fanfare, members of the House of Representatives banged a gavel, turned out the lights and rushed home, declaring their work finished for now.  “If that frustrates you, it should,” Obama said. “When they skipped town, members of Congress left a whole bunch of proposals sitting on the table — actions that would create jobs, boost our economy and strengthen middle-class security. These ideas have been around for months. The American people want to see them passed. But apparently, some members of Congress are more worried about their jobs and their paychecks this campaign season than they are about yours.”  Obama specifically noted that the farm bill, the veterans job corps and a mortgage refinancing program were items left undone.  He also prodded Congress to take up his proposal to extend just the middle- and lower-income portions of the Bush tax cuts.  “If Congress had listened to you, they could have given 98 percent of Americans and 97 percent of small business owners a guarantee that your taxes won’t go up next year by a single dime,” Obama said. “This is something we all agree on. It should have gotten done a long time ago.  “But Republicans in Congress have refused to budge. They’re holding tax cuts for 98 percent of Americans hostage until we pass tax cuts for the wealthiest 2 percent of Americans. And now, middle-class families and small business owners are left wondering what their tax bill will look like next year.”  Congress typically adjourns in early September, with members heading back home to reconnect with constituents and turn their attention to their reelection bids. Obama said that being back home with voters should remind members of Congress that they have unfinished work.  “After going home and listening to their constituents for a few weeks, members of Congress should come back in November and do this work. They should do the right thing for veterans and farmers; for responsible homeowners and small businesses; for Americans everywhere who are just trying to get ahead,” Obama said. Obama encouraged Americans to bring pressure to bear against members during this election season.  “I need your help,” he said. “Tell your members of Congress you can’t afford to wait any longer. If you get an answering machine, leave a message. If you see them campaigning back home, tell them in person. Because there’s been enough talk. It’s time for action. That’s what you deserve, and that’s what it’s going to take to move this country forward.”  Republicans, too, used their weekly address to knock Obama for unfinished business. Sen. Jeff Sessions (R-Ala.) accused Obama of failing to address the seriousness of the debt and Senate Democrats of failure to govern effectively.  “The American people see the financial chaos. They know it must stop. They know their families are at risk. And that their country is in danger,” Sessions said. “Yet the president does not rally the country to action. Instead, he says our debt course is nothing to worry about. He continues to insist that his budget plan will pay down the debt.  Sessions also said Republicans could do better than Obama and Senate Democrats.  “If given the chance, Republicans will get this government under control. A Republican Senate will pass a budget. Failure is not an option,” Sessions said, referring to the fact that the Democratic-run Senate has not passed a budget in more than three years.  “We believe in a better way forward. A way that brings us closer to — not further from — our heritage as a nation,” Sessions said. “We believe in growing the economy, not the bureaucracy. We believe in helping more people live good and prosperous lives. We believe in preventing the safety net from becoming a restraint. We believe in lifting people onto the employment rolls instead of leaving them on the welfare rolls. And we believe that compassion should not be defined by how much money the government spends on poverty but how many people we can help rise out of poverty.” 
