Credit...Luke Sharrett/The New York TimesApril 24, 2013DALLAS — President Obama has left little mystery about how he views his predecessor. “The failed policies of George W. Bush” wiped away a budget surplus and “squandered the legacy” of bipartisan foreign policy. Mr. Bush put two wars “on a credit card,” led the country away “from our values” and “crashed the economy.”But Mr. Obama will surely say none of that when he helps dedicate the George W. Bush Presidential Library and Museum on Thursday. Addressing a crowd of Bush supporters and administration veterans, the 44th president will no doubt extol the virtues of the 43rd and praise his years of service to the country.It has become an awkward ritual of the modern presidency that the current occupant of the Oval Office is called upon to deliver a generous historical judgment of the previous one. With the opening of each new presidential library, the members of the world’s most exclusive fraternity put aside partisan differences to honor the shared experience of running the nation in difficult times.The task in such moments is especially acute when, as with Mr. Obama and Mr. Bush, the current and previous presidents come from opposing parties and such different sensibilities. The incumbent must hit grace notes without appearing inconsistent with past criticism or, worse, hypocritical. Sometimes a president goes through the motions, dutifully reading what aides put before him. Other times, library dedications have become bonding moments when presidents genuinely grow closer.“When a president dedicates the library of someone he opposed politically, it’s interesting and a bit of a challenge,” said Michael Waldman, who was the chief speechwriter for President Bill Clinton when he helped President George Bush open his library in 1997. “The best thing to do is focus on something that you can really embrace and mean it.”Kenneth Khachigian, a chief speechwriter for President Ronald Reagan, said there was a formula: “If you’re a speechwriter, you can write a really nice speech about how Americans can fight and disagree and debate, but at the end of the day we’re all Americans and we have the same goals, and I’ve learned that anybody who sits in this office really at the end of the day has the best interest of everyone at heart.”ImageCredit...Allison V. Smith for The New York TimesThat is a fair summation of what Reagan said in dedicating President Jimmy Carter’s library in October 1986. In that case, the dedication came in the midst of a midterm election campaign, so the moment of conciliation was followed just weeks later by fairly tough language on the campaign trail in which Reagan criticized Mr. Carter’s policies.With no election at hand, Mr. Obama has more latitude, not having to worry about alienating his base, which still loathes Mr. Bush. A gracious speech could also fit into his outreach to Congressional Republicans.The timing of the legislative calendar does give him some fodder for common ground with Mr. Bush. As he fights to liberalize the immigration system, Mr. Obama could use the speech to point out that he and Mr. Bush agree on the issue, implicitly pressuring other Republicans to join them.That is not to say that Mr. Obama is putting away his partisan hat altogether. He flew to Dallas on Wednesday, a day early, to appear at a Democratic fund-raiser. At the ceremony on Thursday at the new Bush center, on the campus of Southern Methodist University, he will be joined by the elder Mr. Bush, Mr. Carter and Mr. Clinton.At the event on Wednesday, Mr. Obama told donors: “I’m really looking forward to attending the Bush library opening tomorrow. One of the things I will insist upon is whatever our political differences, President Bush loves this country and loves its people and shares that same concern, and was concerned about all people in America, not just those who voted Republican.”But Mr. Bush’s circle is anticipating the encounter with a certain suspicion. While the former president retreated to Texas after leaving office and has refrained from criticizing his successor, Mr. Obama made Mr. Bush a foil on the campaign trail, attributing the country’s problems to the situation he inherited.“A huge part of his messaging platform for his presidency has been the contrast, laying it off on his predecessor,” said Dan Bartlett, who was the White House counselor under Mr. Bush. “He’s going to have to thread the needle.”Mr. Bush’s advisers bristled at Mr. Obama’s Inaugural Address in 2009, when the new president criticized “our collective failure to make hard choices” and assured the world “that we are ready to lead once more.” They also thought that Mr. Obama was grudging when he unveiled Mr. Bush’s portrait at the White House in 2012. Although Mr. Obama praised his predecessor’s “extraordinary strength and resolve” after the Sept. 11 attacks, he noted “just how breathtaking the financial crisis” he had left behind turned out to be.Marc Thiessen, a chief speechwriter in the Bush White House, said the test on Thursday would be whether Mr. Obama could be “substantively generous,” not just “personally generous.” In other words, would Mr. Obama acknowledge that despite their differences over Iraq, health care and other issues, Mr. Bush accomplished worthy things in office, like his fight against AIDS in Africa?“He’s never going to say this,” Mr. Thiessen said, “but if he’s being totally honest, he would say that except for interrogations, he adopted almost the entire Bush counterterrorism policy, some of it voluntarily, some of it involuntarily, but most of it voluntarily.”Mr. Obama and Mr. Bush have more in common than either might admit. They both value discipline and an orderly operation. They are both politicians intent on transformational presidencies. They both proved polarizing even though they arrived in Washington promising bipartisanship. But they have never connected in a meaningful way, leaving many in both camps to watch closely how they interact on Thursday. Past library openings have proved to be bonding moments: Mr. Clinton praised the elder Mr. Bush at his library opening in 1997, and both Bushes returned the favor at his dedication seven years later. Mr. Clinton was touched and has since become a virtual adopted member of the Bush family.“It was 2004 at the dedication of the Clinton library where the friendship was really renewed,” said James L. Rutherford III, known as Skip, a longtime friend of Mr. Clinton’s and the dean of the Clinton School of Public Service at the University of Arkansas. “That’s where they really bonded again and have remained good friends ever since.“That’s one of the beauties of the presidential library system,” he added. “That makes that possible.”