    The April unemployment report suggests that the economy is slowly recovering. A better than expected jobs report released Friday will most likely soothe worries that the economy has entered a “spring swoon,” but it continued to show that the pace of economic growth remains too slow to put a big dent in the unemployment number.  The economy added 165,000 jobs in April while unemployment dropped modestly to 7.5 percent, the Labor Department reported.  The number beat expectations with analysts estimating that the economy added 145,000 jobs last month, according to a Reuters survey of economists.  ( PHOTOS: What’s in Obama’s 2014 budget)  “All things considered, 165,000 isn’t the biggest monthly gain in payrolls you’ll ever see, but it’s enough to assuage concerns that the economy had stalled again,” Paul Ashworth, chief U.S. economist for Capital Economics, said in a statement.  The report contained good news about job growth in recent months. The number of jobs added for March was revised upward from 88,000 to 138,000 and February figures were also revised up from 268,000 to 332,000.  Friday’s jobs numbers are certain to fuel ongoing concerns about the economic impact of across-the-board spending cuts known as the sequester. The cuts went into effect March 1 and the nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office has projected they could lead to 750,000 fewer jobs this year and scale back economic growth by 0.6 percent.  “Now is not the time for Washington to impose self-inflicted wounds on the economy,” Chairman of the White House Council of Economic Advisers Alan Krueger said in a statement. “The Administration continues to urge Congress to replace the sequester with balanced deficit reduction, while working to put in place measures to create middle-class jobs, such as by rebuilding our roads and bridges and promoting American manufacturing.”  Both Democrats and Republicans have derided the blunt nature of the sequester cuts, which do not allow agencies to pick and choose where they can slash their budgets.  But other than a recent effort to make sure the sequester did not lead to flight delays, there is little evidence there will be a deal to delay or greatly alter the way the cuts are being implemented. The April report did not contain major evidence of how much impact the cuts are having two months after they began. The economy shed 11,000 government jobs in April, continuing the downward trend that was in place before the sequester. Government jobs for March and February were also revised down slightly in Friday’s report.  Mark Zandi, chief economist at Moody’s Analytics, warned that the worst of the sequester’s hit to the economy is still to come.  “I think the sequester is going to hurt. I think it’s already hurting. The job growth numbers are beginning to weaken, and I think we will see weaker job growth numbers in the spring and summer,” he said on MSNBC. “In fact, the sequester effects on the job market will be at their largest in the third quarter.”  The release of the report was followed by the expected political sniping over which party’s policies are to blame for the high jobless rate.  “Over the last four years the failed policies enacted by Washington Democrats have consistently obstructed economic growth and job creation,” House GOP Whip Kevin McCarthy (R-Calif.) said in a statement. “If we’re going to turn our economy around and get Americans back to work, Washington has to get out of the way.”  Investors reacted positively to the report with the Dow Jones Industrial Average up more than 150 points in morning trading.  The Federal Reserve continues to be concerned about the pace of the economic recovery, and Friday’s jobs numbers come on the heels of the central bank’s announcement Wednesday that it will continue its controversial bond buying program in an effort to boost economic growth and hiring.  The pace of economic recovery is also likely to shape the next big economic debate for Washington lawmakers — whether to raise the debt ceiling. Congress passed legislation earlier this year to suspend the borrowing limit until May 19 but the Treasury Department can avoid breaching the debt ceiling until August or September, according to analysts.  Economists have warned that a failure to raise the debt ceiling on time will roil markets and deal a blow to the economy.  The labor force participation rate remained unchanged in April at 63.3 percent. In March, some 496,000 people had dropped out of the labor force, sparking concerns that workers were losing confidence in the jobs market. 
