    Obama spoke at a press conference marking the first 100 days of his second term. President Barack Obama defended the sluggish start to his second term Tuesday, arguing the United States needs more facts on Syria to guide his response and more cooperation from Congress to make progress on his domestic agenda.  Addressing Obamacare implementation, immigration reform and his inability to break the stalemate on the sequestration cuts aside from last week’s FAA carve out, Obama used a press conference marking the 100-day mark of his second term to bat back suggestions that the he’s falling short on all the big-ticket items in the agenda he laid out for himself at the beginning of the year.  He started, though, by pushing back on the idea that he was dithering on crafting an American response to the situation in Syria, even after his administration announced proof of chemical weapons use — which Obama has previously called a “red line” that would be a “game-changer” if crossed, recalibrating how the international community deals with Syrian President Bashar al-Assad’s regime. Pressed for explanation Tuesday, Obama said that the findings change the game in that his administration will have to “rethink the range of options that are available to us.”  ( Also on POLITICO: Obama explains Syria 'game-changer')  Though Obama never said the word “Iraq,” he drew a clear distinction between his approach of slowly gathering evidence and the prospect of rushing to war.  “What we now have is evidence that chemical weapons have been used inside of Syria, but we don’t know how they were used, when they were used, who used them. We don’t have a chain of custody that establishes what exactly happened,” Obama said, explaining why he wouldn’t say definitively that a “red line” had been crossed.  “When I am making decisions about America’s national security and the potential for taking additional action in response to chemical weapon use, I’ve got to make sure I’ve got the facts,” he continued. “That’s what the American people would expect. And if we end up rushing to judgment without hard effective evidence, then we can find ourselves in a position where we can’t mobilize the international community.”  ( Also on POLITICO: Obama says suspicions persist between U.S., Russian agencies)  Though he hasn’t been successful on most of the issues he set to address at the start of his second term — especially to avert sequestration and to pass new gun laws — Obama denied that he’s lost his “juice” in Washington.  “Golly. I think it’s a little, as Mark Twain said, ‘rumors of my demise may be exaggerated at this point,’” Obama said, paraphrasing the famous quote.  ( PHOTOS: Obama’s 24 international trips)  Immigration reform has the best prospects of making it into law, with some Senate Republicans joining with Democrats in support of the bill drafted by the Gang of Eight. Leaders hope to have the bill on the floor by June, though the process will still have to make its way through the Republican House. A new immigration law, he said, will be a “historic achievement.” On fiscal issues, he said that some Senate Republicans have shown a desire to “move past not only sequester, but Washington dysfunction. Whether or not we can get it done, we’ll see.”  Obama defended his decision to support a bill that ends furloughs for FAA employees while other sequester cuts continue to persist. It’s a rare instance in which members of Congress have thought about the needs of their constituents and the American people, he said.  Though Obama acknowledged that critics have said he was “crying wolf, he’s Chicken Little” in warning of the potential damage done by sequestration, the president insisted that the effects of the cuts have lived up to the administration’s warnings.  While Obama continues to push on his domestic priorities, he said he will also lead an effort to reconsider how the United States brings suspected terrorists to justice more than a decade after the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks. “We should be wiser about how we prosecute terrorists. Period,” he said.  He will “examine every option that we have administratively to try to deal with this issue, but ultimately we’re going to need some help from Congress and I’m going to ask some folks over there who, you know, care about fighting terrorism but also care about who we are as a people to step up and help me on it,” he said. That includes an effort to “reengage” with Congress on closing the U.S. detention facility at Guantanamo Bay.  “This is not something that’s in the best interest of the American people. And it is not sustainable,” he said, though he didn’t say what he’d want to do with the detainees there.  Obama also said that in light of the recent terror attack in Boston, his administration is examining its intelligence capabilities, looking for “additional protocols and procedures that could be put in place that would further improve and enhance our ability to detect a potential attack.”  As Obama headed back into the West Wing after spending about 45 minutes behind the briefing room lectern, he was drawn back to the microphone by a shouted question about Jason Collins, the NBA player who came out publicly in a Sports Illustrated column published Monday.  The president said he spoke to Collins on Monday and “told him I couldn’t be prouder.” Collins’s comfort in revealing that he is gay is “one of the extraordinary measures of progress that we’ve seen in this country has been the recognition that the LGBT community deserves full equality, not just partial equality, not just tolerance, but a recognition that they’re fully part of the American family,” the president said.  Collins’s announcement is a major milestone, he added, that someone “who’s excelled at the highest levels in one of the major sports to say this is who I am, I’m proud of it, I’m still a great competitor. I’m still seven-foot tall and can bang with Shaq and deliver a hard foul.”  Obama’s most recent interaction with the White House press was his speech at Saturday’s White House Correspondents’ Dinner, where he poked fun at journalists’ complaints that the administration is limiting press access in favor of using its new media to directly to reach out to Americans. “I found a new favorite source for political news — these guys are great. I think everybody here should check it out, they tell it like it is. It’s called whitehouse.gov,” he joked.  The president hadn’t taken questions from the press corps since late March, when he held availabilities with Israeli, Palestinian and Jordanian counterparts while traveling abroad. in late March. He last took questions from reporters at the White House on March 1 and railed against the automatic spending cuts that went into effect that day. 
