Caitlyn Jenner, the former Olympic athlete-turned-transgender activist and reality TV star, has declared her intention to run for California governor in the looming recall race to unseat incumbent Democrat Gavin Newsom.On a website launched Friday, Jenner says: "I'm In! California has been my home for nearly 50 years. I came here because I knew that anyone, regardless of their background or station in life, could turn their dreams into reality. But for the past decade, we have seen the glimmer of the Golden State reduced by one-party rule that places politics over progress and special interests over people. Sacramento needs an honest leader with a clear vision."The website does not identify her as being affiliated with any political party.She added: "This campaign will be powered by everyday Californians who deserve leadership that is accountable to them, not the special interests in Sacramento."Jenner, a longtime Republican, in 2018 executed a political about-face, turning against President Donald Trump with a mea culpa column declaring, "I was wrong" about Trump's commitment to LGBTQ rights."Trump was the first Republican presidential candidate to claim to support this valuable, vulnerable community, and I was encouraged by the applause he received when he said at the Republican National Convention in July 2016 that he would stand up for the LGBTQ community," Jenner said in a column published in the Washington Post."Sadly, I was wrong. The reality is that the trans community is being relentlessly attacked by this president...He has ignored our humanity. He has insulted our dignity. He has made trans people into political pawns as he whips up animus against us in an attempt to energize the most right-wing segment of his party..."In a June 2020 interview with People about the five-year anniversary of her transition, Jenner said she has "changed her political views." "I've changed my thinking in a lot of ways," she told the outlet. Now identifying as "economically conservative, socially progressive," she believes "we need equality for all, regardless of who's in the White House." Not everyone is convinced.Equality California slammed Jenner on Twitter Friday over her past support of Trump. "Make no mistake: we can't wait to elect a #trans governor of California. But @Caitlyn_Jenner spent years telling the #LGBTQ+ community to trust Donald Trump. We saw how that turned out. Now she wants us to trust her? Hard pass."The team advising Jenner has included Trump’s former campaign manager, Brad Parscale, and GOP fundraiser Caroline Wren, who worked for Trump's campaign.In her announcement Friday, Jenner described herself as a "compassionate disrupter" and that "career politicians have over-promised and under-delivered." She called Newsom's time as governor "disastrous."Newsom, who was elected governor in 2018, previously served as lieutenant governor and mayor of San Francisco.Newsom has said he is taking the recall effort "very seriously" but has branded the drive as a “partisan political power grab” and the work of extremist conservatives and white supremacists like the Proud Boys. During a press conference at the reopening of Highway 1 in Big Sur on Friday morning, hours after Jenner's announcement, Newsom said that he is focused on vaccine distribution and pandemic recovery as he had while he aggressively tours the state. How does a recall work?Newsom opponents, frustrated with the governor's liberal policies and approach to the COVID-19 pandemic, in March turned in what they said was over 2 million petition signatures to qualify a recall election against him. The California secretary of state is in the process of validating those signatures; however, most observers expect the measure to reach the necessary valid signature count of about 1.5 million. Officials have until April 29 to finish certifying those that were submitted. If there are enough valid signatures, an election could be held in October or November.If the recall qualifies for the ballot, as expected, voters would be asked two questions: first, whether Newsom should be removed from office. The second would be a list of replacement candidates to choose from, if more than 50% of voters support removing Newsom from office.If Californians vote to recall the governor, Newsom would be removed from office and the candidate who receives a plurality of votes — not the majority, just more than the other listed candidates — will take his place, according to the secretary of state.The highest per capita clusters of signatures came from rural communities — higher concentrations were also present in more conservative areas of the state. Five previous attempts to recall Newsom were unsuccessful.Democratic strongholds, including the Bay Area, remain loyal to the former mayor of San Francisco. Republicans last captured the governor's office when Arnold Schwarzenegger ousted Democratic Gov. Gray Davis in a 2003 recall that featured a crowded slate of candidates including several minor celebrities. In that election, more than 55% of the votes went to the recall effort — Schwarzenegger received more than 4 million votes. Over 60% of the more than 15.4 million Californians who registered to vote actually did so in that special election.To date, that was the only successful recall of a governor in California history.In a series of tweets on Friday, Daniel Ketchell, a spokesman for Schwarzenegger, said that the actor-turned-politician was civically engaged prior to his run for office. Anne Dunsmore, a consultant for Rescue California, one of the political committees backing the recall, said she recently spoke to Jenner and views her as a serious candidate.“I don’t think she’s going to use it to further her own purpose, but rather bring awareness to what’s happening here,” Dunsmore said.Who else wants to run in the recall race?Others who have declared their intention to run include John Cox, a Republican businessman who lost to Newsom in 2018 and is running again; former San Diego Mayor Kevin Faulconer; and ex-U.S. Rep. Doug Ose, who last held office in 2005. None is close to a household name.Faulconer announced his candidacy on Feb. 1. Following Jenner's announcement, Faulconer held a press conference streamed through his Facebook page, in which he announced a "Save California Restaurants" plan, citing the impact the pandemic has had on the restaurant industry. "Jobs are gone, dreams get put on hold and our communities are a lot emptier as a result," he said. "In many cases ... restaurants were opened and closed four and five times. Imagine losing your job five times."Cox said on his website he "has stepped forward to run for governor because he is deeply concerned about the decisions being made in Sacramento today." He said he "will work to reduce the cost of living, create high-paying jobs, and fixing homelessness across our state." Ose previously said he was ready to work across party lines to reopen schools and businesses in a state upended by the coronavirus, while taking on the long-running homelessness crisis.“Californians are tired of having a governor whose operating themes are hypocrisy, self-interest, half truths and mediocrity,” Ose, 65, said in a statement announcing his candidacy.Jenner's rise to fameJenner is famous not only for her Olympic career but also her marriage to Kris Jenner, formerly Kris Kardashian. Jenner is a step-parent to the Kardashian children and parent to reality TV stars Kendall, Kylie, Brody, and Brandon Jenner. Two other Jenner children are less in the spotlight. Jenner has appeared on the reality TV show about the Jenner-Kardashian family, "Keeping up with the Kardashians," which aired for 20 seasons, and was the star of her own show "I am Cait," which aired for two. She published a memoir, "The Secrets of My Life," in 2017. She appeared on "The Masked Singer" in March.Jenner made headlines in 2015 after being involved in a fatal multi-vehicle crash in Malibu. A 69-year-old woman was killed and several other people were injured. Sheriff's investigators determined Jenner, who was not injured, was traveling at an unsafe speed for traffic conditions, but prosecutors declined to file charges. Jenner faced at least three lawsuits related to the death and injuries resulting from the crash.Jenner is also an avid golfer and most recently made a trip to the desert to play in the LPGA golf tournament in 2017. The Associated Press contributed to this report. 