    Holder says, 'This is is among the most serious — top two or three — I’ve ever seen.' Attorney General Eric Holder said Tuesday that he’d recused himself from the national security leak investigation in which prosecutors obtained the phone records of Associated Press journalists – but that he’s already started a fresh inquiry into the IRS scrutiny of conservative political groups.  The comments were the first from Holder or the Justice Department on the twin Obama administration scandals that have burst through in recent days. And they come as the Justice Department, and Holder himself, find themselves under increasing pressure.  That pressure is likely to grow Wednesday, when the attorney general arrives on Capitol Hill for previously scheduled hearings that have now been reoriented to address the recent inquiries. Holder got a preview of his likely Hill reception Tuesday, as both Republican and Democratic senators, including Leader Harry Reid (D-Nev.) were critical of the administration’s actions on both fronts.  ( PHOTOS: Eric Holder’s career)  Holder called the original AP story that sparked the probe “a very, very serious leak,” but revealed Tuesday that he had recused himself from the investigation because he had been interviewed by the FBI as part of initial inquiry.  Explaining his recusal from the leak case, Holder said he took the step “out of an abundance of caution.”  “I was one of the people who had knowledge of this matter. I have frequent contact with the media,” Holder said. He said he stepped aside “to try to make sure this was independent and to avoid even the possibility of the appearance of a conflict.”  “I would have been the person leading the investigation,” Holder added. “It just seemed better to me to step out.”  ( WATCH: Eric Holder's full press conference)  The decision to subpoena AP phone records was made by Deputy Attorney General James Cole, said a Justice Department official who asked not to be named.  The leak probe was launched following an AP story last May about a counter-terrorism investigation in Yemen that involved efforts to bomb an aircraft headed for the United States.  Holder said Tuesday that leak warranted an aggressive response from the federal government.  “I have to say this is among, if not the most serious, among the top two or three most serious leaks I have ever seen. It put the American people at risk. That is not hyperbole. It put the American people at risk. And trying to determine who was responsible for that I think required very aggressive action,” he said.  The attorney general said he was not aware of “all that went into the formulation of the subpoena,” but expressed confidence in the Justice Department officials who made the decisions. He also said the Obama administration remains supportive of a shield law to protect journalists.  Holder also disclosed that he’d launched the IRS investigation Friday, calling the agency’s actions targeting Tea Party-related groups “outrageous and unacceptable.” He said the FBI was coordinating with the Justice Department to see if any laws were broken. “Those (IRS actions) were, I think, as everyone can agree, if not criminal, outrageous and unacceptable and we are examining the facts to see if they are criminal violations,” he said.  In a letter to the Associated Press Monday, Cole defended the decision to seek the AP’s phone records. “Please understand I appreciate your concerns and that we do not take lightly the decision to issue subpoena for [telephone] toll records associated with members of the news media,” Cole wrote to AP President and CEO Gary Pruitt. “We strive in every case to strike the proper balance between the public’s interest in the free flow of information and the public’s interest in the protection of national security and effective enforcement of our criminal laws. We believe we have done so in this matter.”  Cole said the department adhered to the policy which requires prosecutors “to negotiate with the media organization in advance of issuing the subpoenas unless doing so would pose a substantial threat to the integrity of the investigation.” He did not explain how providing such notice in this case would have jeopardized the investigation.  Cole said investigators exhausted “all other reasonable alternative investigative steps,” including more than 550 interviews and a review of “tens of thousands of documents,” before seeking the phone records.  He also disputed claims that investigators sought records spanning a two-month period. In the letter Tuesday, he stressed that the records “cover only a portion of that two-month period.”  Holder said he was “confident” that those leading the investigation “followed all the appropriate Justice Department regulations and did things according to DOJ rules.”  Asked if the move reflected an administration policy to “go after” reporters, Holder said it did not.  “That is certainly not the policy of this administration,” Holder said. He noted that he and the administration supported a reporter’s shield proposed in Congress several years ago. Holder did not mention that the measure, which never became law, would not apply in national security-related cases.  At the Capitol Tuesday, senators on both sides of the aisle expressed outrage that the Justice Department had obtained reporters’ phone records.  “We’ve seen the efforts of the administration to quiet the voices of their critics,” said Senate Minority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-Ky.)  Sen. Orrin Hatch (R-Utah), a former Judiciary Committee chairman, called the AP records story a “serious, serious matter.”  “These are outrageous things,” Hatch said, in reference to the twin DOJ and IRS scandals. “You can’t be free if you’ve got government monitoring your calls.”  Sen. Susan Collins (R-Maine) told reporters the IRS and DOJ issues “raise real concerns about this administration’s respect for the First Amendment.”  Some Democrats said they would be looking for answers from the administration. “I am concerned about the Justice Department’s action and the chilling effect it could have on our Fourth Estate,” said Sen. Mark Udall (D-Colo.), who sits on the Senate Intelligence Committee. “The Justice Department must explain its expansive and sweeping seizure of information.”  The Senate Majority Leader also sounded a critical note Tuesday afternoon. “I have trouble defending what the Justice Department did and going out and looking at the AP,” said Reid.  Cole, who made the decision to launch the AP probe, last grabbed the spotlight in 1995, when he was appointed special counsel to a House committee investigating then-Speaker Newt Gingrich for using tax-exempt funds for political purposes, according to his official Justice Department biography. That investigation led to a formal House reprimand of Gingrich.  Holder’s announcements came moments after White House press secretary Jay Carney said President Barack Obama “has confidence in the attorney general” and “his team over at the Department of Justice.”  - Ginger Gibson, Tim Mak and Scott Wong contributed to this report 
