    
'Reagan never diluted what he had to say,' Paul said. On a pilgrimage to Ronald Reagan’s presidential library, Rand Paul prodded Republicans Friday to become more inclusive.  “When the Republican Party looks like the rest of America, we will win again,” the Kentucky senator told a crowd in Simi Valley, Calif. “When we have people with tattoos and without tattoos, with ties and without ties, with suits and in blue jeans, then we win nationally.”  During a question-and-answer session, Paul said the GOP must “adapt, evolve or die.”  ( PHOTOS: Rand Paul’s career)  “If we want to win nationally again, we will have to reach out to a diverse nation and welcome African Americans, Asians, Latinos into our party,” he said. “Latinos will come to the GOP when we treat them with dignity, when we embrace immigrants as hard workers who are an asset to our country.”  Paul’s comments come as the party’s base remains leery of immigration reform, which they see as a pathway for amnesty, and Republicans in the Capitol markup draft legislation. Paul has said he would like to amend the bill being considered, which insulates him somewhat if the measure fails.  Soon after, he warned that the party must stay true to core convictions.  “Reagan never diluted what he had to say,” said Paul. “He didn’t say, ‘Maybe if you get time, maybe you could think about tearing that wall down.’ We need to be the party of passion.”  ( PHOTOS: Highlights from Rand Paul’s filibuster)  Other 2016 contenders—including Paul Ryan, Marco Rubio and Chris Christie—have spoken at the venue, which has become a must-stop in the silent primary for the Republican presidential nomination.  Paul has worked overtime to position himself as one of the logical claimants to Reagan’s mantle as he seeks to broaden his appeal beyond the libertarian base that powered his father Ron Paul’s presidential campaigns.  ( Also on POLITICO: Paul preaches sustainability)  Paul also volunteered a level of admiration for President Barack Obama – even if he also criticizes his job performance. He recalled riding with him aboard Air Force One and talking about bridge funding.  “I like the president,” he said. “I don’t like his politics. I don’t like his policies. But I do like him.”  The younger Paul spoke Friday of attending the 1976 Republican National Convention at 13. His dad was one of only a handful of congressmen who had endorsed Reagan over Gerald Ford, the sitting president.  On the scandals of the day, Paul called on Obama to “fire and prosecute anyone who used government power to punish political opponents.”  He argued that Republicans can compete in a blue state like California if they reach out to minorities on issues like education, specifically school choice.  “Republicans will begin to gain African American support when we go into every community and fight for better schools,” he said.  Paul was joined by his wife, Kelley, and son Robert, one of three boys. Former Gov. Pete Wilson sat in the audience. Nancy Reagan, who has been frail, was not able to make it.  Showing his youthful exuberance, Paul told the crowd – which appeared older than who he usually speaks to – that Republicans need to be “the party of passion.”  “When I think of a man coming over the hill singing, I think of the passion of Patrick Henry—‘Give me liberty or give me death’—combined with the energy of The Proclaimers song—‘I will walk 500 miles and I will walk five hundred more, just to be the guy who walked a thousand miles to fall down at your door.’” 
