    President Obama has directed the Defense Department to strengthen its non-nuclear capabilities. President Barack Obama called Wednesday for “peace with justice” as he proposed reducing U.S. nuclear arsenals by as much as one-third in a wide-ranging call for action delivered on the eastern side of Berlin’s Brandenburg Gate.  “Our work is not yet done. For we are not only citizens of America or Germany, we are citizens of the world,” Obama said, drawing on John F. Kennedy’s 1963 speech on the west side of the the city, in which he called on Berliners to look ahead to “the day of peace with justice” and to the rest of mankind. “We may not live in fear of nuclear annihilation — but as long as nuclear weapons exist, we are not truly safe.”  He said the United States is now looking to do more to reduce that threat. “After a comprehensive review, I have determined that we can ensure the security of America and our allies and maintain a strong and credibility strategic deterrent while reducing our deployed strategic nuclear weapons by up to one-third,” he said. “I intend to seek negotiated cuts with Russia to move beyond Cold War nuclear postures” and to work with NATO allies for “bold reductions in Europe.”  “We can forge a new international framework for peaceful nuclear power, reject the nuclear weaponization that North Korea and Iran may be seeking,” he added.  Obama has directed the Defense Department to strengthen its non-nuclear capabilities, to reduce the role of nuclear weapons in deterring non-nuclear attacks, and to reduce the role of nuclear launches in contingency planning.  New START calls for the United States and Russia to cut their arsenals to 1,550 nuclear warheads by 2018. Obama’s proposal, which would bring that number down to about 1,000, comes as tensions between the United States and Russia over Syria have been on stark display — most recently on Monday, as Obama and Russian President Vladimir Putin delivered a cold joint statement at the G8 summit, and appeared to make little progress on the issue.  In another big speech in a major European city, in Prague during the spring of 2009, Obama set an even more ambitious long-term goal: “a world without nuclear weapons.” It’s a hope he’s reiterated since, including at last year’s Nuclear Security Summit in Seoul, and one in which he’s said he still believes.  Obama spent much of his speech Wednesday leaning on Kennedy’s “Ich bin ein Berliner” speech given 50 years ago next week, as he laid out a vision in which the United States and Germany “pursue peace and justice not only for our countries, but for all mankind.”  While remaining “vigilant” about terror threats, “we must move beyond the mindset of perpetual war,” Obama said, echoing the philosophy he laid out last month in his speech on counterterrorism in the post-post-9/11 era. In the United States, “that means redoubling our efforts to close the prison at Guantanamo,” he said to cheers. “It means tightly controlling our use of new technology like drones, it means balancing the pursuit of security with the protection of privacy,” he added, referring to the National Security Agency surveillance programs that have drawn fierce criticism from some Americans — and Germans — in recent weeks. “And I’m confident that balance can be struck.”  Obama stressed that continuing to fight for civil rights is a key part of living up to Kennedy’s legacy. “As long as walls exist in our hearts to separate us from those who don’t look like us, or think like us, or worship as we do, then we’re going to have to work harder together to bring those walls of division down,” he said.  He drew some of the most enthusiastic responses from the crowd when discussing gay rights. “We are more free when all people can pursue their own happiness,” he said.  “Peace with justice” also means taking “bold” action on climate change, Obama said. While touting the progress he’s made in doubling fuel efficiency standards for the coming decade, he acknowledged his critics on the issue. “We know we have to do more. And we will do more,” he said, hinting at the climate plan he’s expected to unveil in July.  As interpreted by Obama, Kennedy’s vision also means “meeting our moral obligations” by fighting hunger around the world, strengthening public health programs and “empowering people to build institutions, to abandon the rot of corruption, to create ties with trade, not just aid, both with the West and among the nations that are seeking to rise and increase their capacity because when they succeed, we will be more successful as well.”  Also looming — but not as direct and acknowledged an influence — was Ronald Reagan’s 1987 “tear down this wall” speech, and Obama’s own 2008 speech in Berlin, which drew a crowd of 200,000. “This is our moment, this is our time,” the then-candidate said nearly five years ago. Tickets for Wednesday’s event were intentionally limited to 6,000 — heading off the inevitable comparisons with the 2008 speech — but only about 4,500 people attended.  “No wall can stand against the yearning of justice, the yearnings for freedom, the yearnings for peace that burns in the human heart,” Obama said, later adding that “while I am not the first American president to come to this gate, I’m proud to stand on its eastern side to pay tribute to the past.”  The gate, which has been open since 1989, is “a symbol, the symbol of freedom” for Germany, Chancellor Angela Merkel said in her introduction of Obama. 
