Remember When Trump Said He’d Be Happy to Share His Tax Returns?In a bid to keep his tax and financial records secret, the president’s lawyers tell the justices that he is beyond the reach of Congress and prosecutors.May 13, 2020Credit...Damon Winter/The New York TimesThe Editorial BoardThe editorial board is a group of opinion journalists whose views are informed by expertise, research, debate and certain longstanding values. It is separate from the newsroom.On Tuesday, lawyers for President Trump appeared before the Supreme Court (hearing arguments again by telephone conference) to assert the claim that the nation’s chief executive is unaccountable to Congress or law enforcement authorities — that he is, in short, above the law.The lawyers were trying to block three congressional committees and the Manhattan district attorney from getting access to years of Mr. Trump’s tax returns and other financial records, as well as those of his family members and companies. The House committees said they subpoenaed those records to help them address concerns over Mr. Trump’s possible conflicts of interest and to consider legislation relating to government ethics, banking and foreign interference in elections. The Manhattan district attorney, Cyrus R. Vance Jr., issued his own subpoena as part of what appears to be an investigation into possible campaign-finance violations by Mr. Trump and his aides both before and after he became president.It’s useful to remember that these cases might not have been necessary if Mr. Trump hadn’t broken one of his first promises to the American people four years ago.Back in 2016, candidate Trump said he would be happy to share his tax returns with the public, as every major candidate for president had done without hesitation for four decades. The only problem, Mr. Trump claimed, was that he was under audit — remember the audit? — and so he couldn’t share his returns at the moment. But soon, he promised.Mr. Trump has been president for more than three years. He is campaigning for another term, and yet Americans are still in the dark when it comes to his vast web of corporate entities and how their finances and operations may influence his decisions as a candidate and president.This isn’t an idle concern. Mr. Trump’s tax maneuvers have for decades skirted the edge of legality. In the end, the records may not show evidence of criminal misconduct. But a ruling by the Supreme Court that in essence gives presidents immunity from investigation and prosecution would be a grievous wound to the rule of law.Mr. Trump lost both cases involving the House subpoenas in the lower federal courts, and no surprise: Congress has broad authority to issue subpoenas for all kinds of information. The president’s lawyers argued on Tuesday that the Democratic-led House is on a fishing expedition, acting like prosecutors and trolling for evidence that might hurt Mr. Trump politically.But the Supreme Court has repeatedly approved congressional subpoenas so long as they have a plausible legislative purpose, even if other motives might also be involved. That’s a concept Mr. Trump should be familiar with; the “mixed motive” defense was a central element of his case for acquittal during his impeachment trial.Mr. Trump has argued that responding to these subpoenas would distract him from doing his job. That’s a real concern, but Mr. Trump’s lawyers failed to make the case. Anyway, it hasn’t worked in the past: President Bill Clinton tried it in 1998, hoping to toss out a sexual-harassment lawsuit brought against him by Paula Jones. The justices ruled against him, 9 to 0.President Richard Nixon got the same result when he tried to prevent prosecutors from getting his Oval Office tapes on the ground that they were protected by executive privilege.Mr. Trump doesn’t have as strong a claim as either of his predecessors, since the records now being sought aren’t government documents possibly subject to privilege; and they aren’t even in Mr. Trump’s possession — they are sought from his accountants and bankers — so it’s not a burden for him to hand them over.On the other side, Doug Letter, the lawyer for the House of Representatives, did a poor job of allaying the justices’ fears about Congress abusing its subpoena power. “At some point,” Justice Clarence Thomas said, “this thing gets out of control.” Mr. Letter offered no clear limit.And what about the subpoena issued by Mr. Vance, the Manhattan prosecutor, who is an actual law enforcement authority? Mr. Trump lost this case in the lower courts, too — and then he appealed to the Supreme Court to overturn that ruling on the ground of temporary “absolute immunity.” In other words, arguing that there can be effectively no legal oversight of the president while he is in office. Could he shoot someone on Fifth Avenue and be immune from investigation or prosecution? Mr. Trump’s lawyers made this exact argument in a federal appeals court last year.They lost then, but the central logic behind their effort is clear: Protect Mr. Trump now and set a precedent that future presidents are beyond the reach of the law while in office. Whether it is strong-arming the F.B.I. director to drop a criminal investigation into a former top aide, or conniving with his own attorney general to seek revenge against his enemies, or breaking the law to withhold hundreds of millions of dollars in military aid to Ukraine in the hope of damaging a political opponent — Mr. Trump believes, as he put it, “I can do whatever I want as president.”Presidents have a difficult job. They may enjoy certain protections the rest of us don’t, including immunity from indictment while in office (though that is a matter of legal interpretation, not law). But that doesn’t mean they are free to ignore the law as they see fit. Presidents Nixon and Clinton both got that message loud and clear, from a unanimous court.It’s doubtful that the court under Chief Justice John G. Roberts Jr., which is as polarized as it has been in a century, will see eye to eye. But Tuesday’s cases shouldn’t be difficult, and for a simple reason: Presidents are not, and cannot be, above the law.