Credit...Narciso Contreras for The New York TimesJuly 6, 2013CAIRO — Egypt’s new leaders struggled to put together a new government on Saturday, with disagreements over who should be the interim prime minister spilling out into public view and showcasing the divisions among those who had endorsed the overthrow of the country’s first democratically elected president.State news media initially reported that Mohamed ElBaradei, the Nobel Prize-winning diplomat and a vocal critic of Egypt’s last three leaders, had been chosen as prime minister, a move that would have given the generals who ousted President Mohamed Morsi a head of government likely to appeal to the country’s liberals and to the West.But within hours, the fissures that had vexed Mr. Morsi’s rule re-emerged to undo the reported decision. The ultraconservative party Al Nour, the one Islamic faction that had backed the military takeover, said it would refuse to work with Mr. ElBaradei because of his liberal views. Around midnight, after hours of contradictory news coverage, the new interim president then backed away from the earlier reports that Mr. ElBaradei had been offered the job.The continued chaos underlined the struggle for stability in Egypt, which has lurched from crisis to crisis since the Arab Spring revolution that overthrew President Hosni Mubarak in 2011. Since then, Islamists and liberals have battled for power, even after Mr. Morsi and the once-banned Muslim Brotherhood won multiple rounds of elections. Mr. Morsi was ultimately unseated by the country’s generals on Wednesday for failing to bring Egypt’s political factions together, with many saying that the Islamists had taken too much power. But with the reports that Mr. ElBaradei had been named prime minister on Saturday, the pendulum appeared to have swung the other way. Although the military ousted Mr. Morsi in the name of national reconciliation, Mr. ElBaradei’s apparent rejection underscored the difficulty a military-appointed government may have in bridging Egypt’s divides. Mr. ElBaradei, who is respected worldwide for his work on nuclear issues for the United Nations, was a strong advocate of toppling President Mubarak, but has not enjoyed wide popularity on the Egyptian streets. He had considered running for president after Mr. Mubarak’s fall, but when he dropped out, disappointing his liberal supporters, many assumed that it was because he was unlikely to win. Signs emerged almost immediately Saturday that the reported appointment was not final, with state TV making only passing references to the news and the Web site of Egypt’s flagship newspaper, Al Ahram, saying that the selection would be announced at a news conference that never materialized.“This is how it is with a revolution,” said Rania Azab, a news media adviser for Mr. ElBaradei, 71, who insisted late Saturday that he had been chosen to form an interim cabinet. “You have to bear with us.” She did not respond to telephone calls after it became clear that Mr. ElBaradei’s appointment was not final.ImageCredit...Khaled Desouki/Agence France-Presse — Getty ImagesIn Washington, President Obama met with the National Security Council by conference call and condemned the continuing violence in Egypt, the White House said in a statement. Speaking as the political struggle unfolded in Cairo, he said that the United States was “not aligned with, and does not support, any particular Egyptian political party or group.”Much of Saturday’s confusion played out on the Web of state news media built by Mr. Mubarak to shape Egyptians’ views of the world and their government’s role in it. The television stations and Web sites have struggled at times to find their role under Egypt’s successive rulers since Mr. Mubarak’s fall: first the military, then Mr. Morsi, and now Adli Mansour, a little-known jurist appointed president by the military.Al Ahram reported that Mr. ElBaradei had been charged with forming a government and that he and his ministers would be sworn in once the full cabinet was formed. State television referred only briefly to Mr. ElBaradei’s appointment, showing a video of a news conference he held without broadcasting his remarks.At another news conference that began later and ended near midnight, Ahmed al-Muslimani, a spokesman for Mr. Mansour, was jeered by reporters after telling them that no prime minister had been selected but that talks were continuing. A reporter for the national news service snapped that all had been invited to see Mr. ElBaradei being officially named prime minister.“There is no name for a prime minister up to this moment,” Mr. Muslimani repeated, smiling sheepishly. Asked whether Mr. ElBaradei was still a candidate, he would say only that a decision would be reached soon. The political breakdown came as Egyptians buried their dead and treated their wounded while struggling to come to terms with the widespread street violence that began on Friday and left more than 30 people dead and 1,400 injured.Rubble, shattered glass and spent shotgun shells littered intersections and bridges in Cairo, where battles between Islamist supporters of Mr. Morsi and those celebrating his removal had raged into the early morning.Many were shocked by the level of violence and by the abundance of guns in the hands of the combatants, whose stark disagreement over who should be ruling the country followed them into hospital wards. A Coptic priest was shot dead in the northern Sinai Peninsula, and a video circulated showing what appeared to be Islamists pushing two youths from a concrete tower atop a building.VideoViolence and political clashes on the streets of Egypt are rooted in the country’s history. Former leaders have had little success creating consensus among disparate groups.The violence was the most widespread since the revolution that toppled Mr. Mubarak, and many feared that it would make it harder for the country’s populace to again accept the authority of a single leader.“We have no idea what’s going on,” said Muhammad Ahmed, 27, standing near the bed of a friend, Muhammad Ali, in Qasr al-Aini Hospital in Cairo. Mr. Ali had been shot in the abdomen and sprayed with birdshot in his back during a clash near Cairo University with pro-Morsi marchers.“It’s a nightmare,” Mr. Ahmed said. “I don’t understand anything.”The director of the hospital’s emergency unit, Dr. Hisham Abu Aisha, said Saturday that the hospital had admitted 83 injured people from the previous night’s clashes in Cairo neighborhoods. Most had been shot with birdshot, while others had been stabbed, beaten or hit with rocks.Four bodies had been brought to the hospital, and another person had died in the emergency room.Most disconcerting, Dr. Abu Aisha said, were the 15 people who had arrived with gunshot wounds, indicating a presence of guns among protesters that many in Cairo would have once found unthinkable.Dr. Abu Aisha said the hardest part was the continuation of street fights in the sprawling hospital’s wards.“There were dead and wounded from both sides, and they wanted to finish each other off, so they beat each other inside the hospital,” he said. “There is no agreement and everyone is sticking to their views and we can’t come up with a plan to move the country forward.”Also Saturday, security officials said Khairat el-Shater, the powerful financier and strategist of Mr. Morsi’s Muslim Brotherhood movement, had been arrested. Prosecutors ordered the detention of him and three other prominent Brotherhood members on charges of inciting violence against protesters.About 200 Brotherhood members were put on arrest lists after Mr. Morsi’s ouster. Some prominent members have been released, while others remain detained.Mr. Mansour met with Gen. Abdul-Fattah el-Sisi, who is the defense minister and leader of the armed forces, and also with the interior minister, Mohamed Ibrahim, who is in charge of the police, at the presidential palace that had been occupied by Mr. Morsi just last week.Mr. Mansour, a former chief justice of the Supreme Constitutional Court, has spoken publicly only once since his swearing-in. Islamist supporters who consider Mr. Morsi’s removal a military coup continued their sit-in in the Cairo suburb of Nasr City and in front of the officers’ club of the Republican Guard, where some believe Mr. Morsi is being held. The authorities have given no information on Mr. Morsi’s location since his ouster.