July 15, 2013WASHINGTON — Senator Harry Reid of Nevada took a defiant and uncompromising stand on Monday before a showdown on the future of the filibuster, saying that Republicans must stop blocking executive branch nominations or he will try to change rules to “save the Senate from becoming obsolete.”But senators emerged from a three-and a-half-hour meeting in the Old Senate Chamber saying they were confident that an agreement could be reached Tuesday to defuse the tense partisan standoff, though no deal had been struck in the closed session that went well into the night. Democratic and Republican leaders promised to continue negotiating, but Mr. Reid, the majority leader, said the first test vote was still scheduled for Tuesday morning. Senator John D. Rockefeller IV, Democrat of West Virginia, said, “There’s no deal, but there’s a much better understanding.”All but two of the 100 senators cloistered themselves in the Old Senate Chamber, where some of the great compromises of the early days of the nation were struck and where modern Senates have met at difficult moments, including the impeachment of President Bill Clinton. Senators said nearly all of them spoke, some passionately, for or against a change to the rules, which would ostensibly only end filibusters of presidential nominees for executive branch positions but could possibly pave the way to further limit the filibuster in the future.Advocates of the change said Democrats would stay the course for a showdown on Tuesday. “It was a very good discussion, but at this point, we’re headed to votes” that will probably trigger the change, said Senator Tom Udall, Democrat of New Mexico and a leading advocate of weakening the filibuster.Most other senators said they thought their leaders would bring them back from the brink. A spokesman for Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the Republican leader, said, “A clear bipartisan majority in the meeting believed the leaders ought to find a solution.”“We just need to give them 24 hours,” said Senator Bob Corker, Republican of Tennessee.Senators from both parties said they were seeking an alternative to Mr. Reid’s vow to ask a majority of members to ban filibusters against executive nominations, though he would leave the storied procedural option intact for judicial nominees and legislation. “This is a moment in history where circumstances dictate the need for change,” Mr. Reid said in a speech at the liberal Center for American Progress. He suggested that the only way for Republicans to avoid the rules change was to acquiesce to straight up-or-down votes on Tuesday on seven nominees in question and stop filibustering executive nominations in the future. “I love the Senate, but right now the Senate is broken and needs to be fixed,” he said. Republicans expressed outrage at the proposal and promised to retaliate. But for a Senate that has increasingly found itself tied in procedural knots, the decisions at hand were potentially momentous. Republicans to the last minute were preparing offers of compromise, but Democratic leaders said they had the votes and the wherewithal to pull the trigger on the most significant change since the early 1970s in the way the Senate operates. Although Mr. Reid insisted that the change was extremely narrow, it had the potential to be the beginning of the end of the filibuster — and to eliminate the need for supermajorities to get anything done in Congress’s upper chamber.Mr. Reid’s position could be a bluff to gain leverage to force the nominees through. Senators John McCain of Arizona and Lamar Alexander of Tennessee, both Republicans, were in negotiations with two Democrats, Carl Levin of Michigan and Max Baucus of Montana, to find a way out. But most senators said it was now up to Senators Reid and McConnell.“I want a solution,” Mr. Baucus said. “That’s by far better for everyone, by far.”After the meeting, Mr. McConnell offered Democrats up-or-down votes on all seven contested nominations in exchange for a promise to drop the rule-change threat. Mr. Reid demanded a pledge not to filibuster future nominations. Both sides balked, according to aides familiar with the exchange.Signs earlier on Monday pointed to Mr. Reid exercising a version of what has come to be known as the “nuclear option” — meaning that rather than the 67 votes usually needed to change the Senate rules, Democrats would do so with a majority, a move that could, in the short run, eviscerate what comity is left in the chamber, and, in the longer term, fundamentally change the institution. “It’s almost hard to measure the ramifications that would emanate from such an action,” said Olympia J. Snowe, a former Republican senator from Maine who helped head off an earlier showdown over judicial nominees. “Once you go down that path, you cannot know how this will reverberate on the institution for generations.”Without a deal, Mr. Reid planned to move to cut off debate on Tuesday morning on the nomination of Richard Cordray, the acting head of the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, to become the new agency’s first permanent chief. Republicans have blocked confirmation of any director of the bureau — including Elizabeth Warren, now a Democratic senator from Massachusetts — because they opposed the bureau’s creation and want changes to the way it is financed and overseen.If Mr. Reid failed to get 60 votes, he could move to change the rules of the Senate immediately. If debate were cut off, it would postpone action until the Senate moved on to limit debate on three nominees to fill vacancies on the National Labor Relations Board. Again, Republicans could simply let them go through, but Mr. McConnell has taken a firm stance on two of the nominees, Richard Griffin and Sharon Block. President Obama initially appointed them to the labor board without the Senate’s consent in a disputed “recess appointment,” a move struck down by a federal appeals court.The nominees have been at the center of the fight, and Democrats point to either Mr. Griffin or Ms. Block as the nuclear trigger. If they clear the threshold, the showdown will continue through the day with votes to end debate on President Obama’s labor secretary nominee, Thomas E. Perez; his nominee to head the Environmental Protection Agency, Gina McCarthy; and Fred P. Hochberg, nominated to continue as the president of the Export-Import Bank. Those three were expected to win 60 votes.“This may be one of those moments, as we discussed in the last meeting we were in, where the Senate actually acts in a spontaneous way and does something,” Mr. Corker said.Democrats seemed to be spoiling for a fight. Senator Mary Landrieu of Louisiana, a moderate Democrat who teamed with 13 other senators in 2005 to stop the Republican Senate majority leader, Bill Frist of Tennessee, from ending filibusters on judicial nominees, said the Senate had fundamentally changed.“This place has come to complete gridlock,” Ms. Landrieu said. “Something has to change.”Mr. Reid was careful to say he had no intention of taking the rules change from stopping filibusters on executive branch nominations to ending filibusters on judicial nominations or legislation pending before the Senate. He said he believed that a Republican president should also have the right for nominees to be approved by majority vote. He also said that the 60-vote threshold on legislation helped both conservative and liberal causes. For instance, he said, during the gun control debate in the spring, Republicans drafted legislation to make it mandatory for every state to recognize any other state’s laws on concealed weapons. The 60-vote threshold prevented it from passing.