    It was clear an agreement could be reached when the senators gathered, Schumer said. Senators cemented a deal to avert the “nuclear option” on filibuster rules on Tuesday.  Under the proposal, President Barack Obama would pull two nominees to the National Labor Relations Board — Sharon Block and Richard Griffin — and replace them on Tuesday afternoon with Nancy Schiffer and Kent Hirozawa, according to three sources.  Schiffer is the associate general counsel at the AFL-CIO; Hirozawa is the chief counsel to NLRB Chairman Mark Gaston Pearce and would be nominated to the seat on the board that expires in 2014.  The nominations are expected to move swiftly since without the two new members, the board would cease to function in August.  Under the deal to avoid the nuclear option, votes on the other five nominees would be allowed to go forward – including Cabinet nominations such as Gina McCarthy as EPA administrator and Thomas Perez as Labor secretary. Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid said those five nominees will get confirmation votes in the next two weeks.  ( PHOTOS: Longest filibusters in history)  “We have a new start for this body. And I feel very comfortable about it. I don’t know how I could be happier,” Reid said after the agreement was reached with Senate Minority Leader Mitch McConnell.  “It’s a step in the right direction that the majority has chosen not to exercise the nuclear option. We feel good about that, I think they feel good about it, so I think that crisis has been averted,” McConnell said.  Each side got a piece of what they wanted: Democrats will get seven of Obama’s nominees in place and Republicans were able to scuttle the recess-appointed Block and Griffin from the NLRB. And in the end Republicans will still be able to force procedural votes on executive nominees at a 60-vote threshold and Democrats retain the right to change the rules.  ( Also on POLITICO: Senate heads toward 'nuclear option')  “They’re not sacrificing their right to filibuster and we damn sure aren’t giving up our right to change the rules if necessary,” Reid said.  Just before noon, the Senate voted to move forward with the nomination of Richard Cordray to head the Consumer Financial Protection Board with 71 votes — well over the 60 votes needed to break a filibuster — a breakthrough that allowed senators to back away from the brink of the historic rules changes.  In the Senate Democratic caucus after the Cordrary vote, Sen. Barbara Mikulski (D-Md.) told Democrats not to do a touchdown dance at forcing Republicans to allow votes on the president’s nominees, telling fellow members: “No gloating, maximum dignity.”  ( WATCH: POLITICO's Jake Sherman previews this week in Congress)  Sen. Chuck Schumer (D-N.Y.) said those nominations would have to go through the committee process but must be in place by the end of August, when the NLRB will cease to function without Senate action.  According to Sen. John McCain (R-Ariz.) — who was central in crafting the deal — and Democratic sources, Republicans have agreed to not filibuster the two NLRB nominees.  Reid’s office hadbeen in touch with GOP senators led by John McCain overnight and early Tuesday. McCain also held holding talks with Schumer. The two spoke repeatedly on Monday past 11 p.m., as they did throughout the weekend.  ( Also on POLITICO: Michael Steele: ‘Let the nuclear option rain’)  Schumer said the agreement was sparked by McCain’s doggedness — and Sen. Roger Wicker’s (R-Miss.) request to get all senators in one room together on Monday. Once they all were in the Old Senate Chamber it was clear an agreement could be reached, Schumer said.  “Everybody saw we were so close — it would be a shame to have an armageddon, if you will, when we were so close,” said the No. 3 Democrat. “This morning is when the deal was crystallized. When we woke up this morning, we weren’t sure we had it.” Reid praised McCain multiple times on Tuesday morning when the deal’s finality became apparent, noting the Arizona Republican has played a lead role in trying to figure out a deal to avoid the nuclear option.” “No one was able to break through but for him. And he does it as his own peril,” Reid said.  ( Also on POLITICO: What is a filibuster?)  On Tuesday morning, Vice President Joe Biden swore in Ed Markey as Massachusetts’s new senator, replacing Mo Cowan. But in a nod to the pending business in the Senate, Reid asked that anybody who wanted to come to the floor to compliment Markey would would have to wait.  “You’re going to have to do it later. We have a lot of things to do here,” Reid told a full gallery, including guests for Markey.  The deal comes after a rare all-senators meeting on Monday night in the Old Senate Chamber. Ninety-eight of the body’s 100 senators met late into the night on Monday, and generally senators were buoyed by the more than three-hour meeting. Most members emerged from an Old Senate Chamber devoid of water, food or bathrooms to issue general platitudes to reporters about the good work that went on inside Reid swore them to secrecy.  Republicans hoped the productive vibe in the Senate chamber would translate to a bipartisan deal on avoiding a rules change. They believed at least the meeting bought them some time.  “There’s an opportunity for this to be worked out even yet,” said Sen. Roger Wicker (R-Miss.), who was tasked by McConnell as a prime speaker at the meeting.  “Maybe we can get a little time here and come up something that’s bipartisan,” added John Hoeven (R-N.D.), one of the Republicans trying to work with Democrats on a solution.  If the deal doesn’t translate to more cooperation on nominees, Democrats maintain that they have the votes within their 54-member caucus to change the Senate rules by a majority vote, rather than the usual 67-vote threshold for a rules change. Reid said the leverage that came from knowing he had the votes for a rules change was key.  “The one thing I always had going for me was I had the votes,” Reid said. “We took yes for an answer, which a lot of times around here, it’s hard for people to do that.”  Reid appeared at his press availability flanked by Sens. Tom Udall (D-N.M.) and Jeff Merkley (D-Ore.), two of the loudest voices in Reid’s ear on changing the rules. Udall was none too subtle that Democrats won’t be shy about bringing up the “nuclear option” again if they need to again force action.  “This isn’t meant in anyway as a threat,” Udall said, “But the leader has not given up his right to work and change precedents.”  McConnell made it clear that he’s retained his full procedural toolbox as well.  “We still will be dealing with controversial nominees in the way that controversial nominees inevitably produce: A great debate. And all the options available to the minority remain intact,” McConnell said.  Priya Anand contributed to this report. 
