    Before a June hearing, top Pentagon brass responded to leading legislative proposals. The country’s most senior military commanders filed into a Capitol Hill hearing room in June, sat in front of TV cameras and promised to stamp out military sexual assault — a problem Army chief of staff Gen. Ray Odierno called “a cancer.”  “We can and will do better,” Odierno told the senators.  But privately, Pentagon lawyers and advisers were trying to limit just how much they’d have to do.  Over the past three months, Pentagon lawyers and legislative officials met with senior lawmakers and aides, including the Senate Armed Services Committee staff director and its top lawyer, to persuade them to shut down a movement led by Sen. Kirsten Gillibrand (D-N.Y.) to take the chain of command out of sexual assault cases.  ( PHOTOS: Key players in military sexual assault fight)  Federal agencies plead their case to Congress all the time, so that’s not unusual. Senators on the committee argue that they wouldn’t be doing their jobs if they didn’t weigh the Pentagon’s view. “I’ve had an awful lot of generals on that couch that are professing with sincerity that they realize that this is something they can no longer assume will take care of itself, or that there’s just a training issue,” Sen. Claire McCaskill (D-Mo.) said in an interview in her Capitol Hill office.  But in this case, the Pentagon’s lobbying machine went further than usual on a legislative fight, ratcheting up in-person meetings with key senators and even sending lawyers to negotiate, an unusual step longtime Hill aides said.  Pentagon lawyers even combed through dozens of alternatives offered by the committee staff, picking and choosing among ideas to include in the bill and nixing the ones viewed as cracking down too hard, several sources involved in drafting the bill tell POLITICO.  ( Also on POLITICO: Paul, Cruz set off GOP scramble on sex assualt)  A new prosecution system to enforce major crimes. Faster jury trials. A new rule that would ban all sexual contact between instructors and trainees, a recurring problem. All out.  What did the lawyers give in return? Steps the Pentagon says it’s already taking, such as barring commanders from overturning jury convictions.  That means if the negotiated package becomes law, it won’t amount to much of an overhaul since most of the toughest steps Congress will have asked the Pentagon to take in 25 years of promising to solve the problem aren’t even new.  ( Also on POLITICO: Bipartisan scene over sexual assault)  The edited package already sailed through Chairman Carl Levin’s Armed Services Committee in June. It defeated Gillibrand’s measure to remove sexual assault cases from the chain of command, a proposal that she is now taking to the full Senate.  Gillibrand’s measure is picking up momentum, with Republican Sens. Rand Paul of Kentucky and Ted Cruz of Texas announcing at a Tuesday news conference that they’re signing on as co-sponsors.  But the military’s maneuvering in committee is a reminder that Gillibrand is confronting what many Democrats and Republicans have seen before her: The Pentagon rarely loses on Capitol Hill.  Just look at the military’s track record so far: This wasn’t a routine ask for more money for a weapons project, backed by a senator or two with a home-state interest, but a top-to-bottom reshaping of a measure meant to force the Pentagon to solve a problem that’s been festering for more than two decades, despite intensifying congressional scrutiny from both parties and growing public outrage over fresh rounds of headlines documenting sexual misconduct in the ranks.  And still the Pentagon won Round One.  ( Also on POLITICO: Paul, Cruz join in on military sex-assault bill)  Plus, the Pentagon is still going full speed ahead. Military officials are working the phones and meeting with senators of both parties who don’t serve on the Armed Services Committee, urging them to oppose Gillibrand, according to a Defense Department source.  McCaskill, a chief backer of Levin’s package, said Tuesday she plans to encourage senators to hear from retired military lawyers, too.  McCaskill is also cheering the package itself, pointing to language stripping commanders of the ability to overturn jury verdicts and making it a criminal offense to retaliate against victims who report alleged crimes — changes she says will improve how sexual assault cases are handled. Even supporters of Gillibrand’s alternative do not oppose the other measure, but simply argue it does not go far enough.  And the Pentagon has a second line of defense. Even if Gillibrand pulls off an upset victory in the Senate, the measure is expected to hit a wall in the Republican-controlled House. The House bill includes similar language to Levin’s alternative, and there is no serious push to remove cases from the chain of command in the lower chamber.  ( QUIZ: Do you know Kirsten Gillibrand?)  When the two bills meet in conference, many observers expect the Gillibrand proposal would be stripped out to ensure the bill — considered a must-pass because it authorizes funding for the Pentagon — will still pass in the House.  “There’s understandably deference given to people who have spent their entire lives in the service,” said Sen. Susan Collins (R-Maine). “The military does many things extremely well, but it’s done an extremely poor job of dealing with this problem. And, I don’t think we can defer to the military’s views on this issue given their poor track record.”  When asked if the Pentagon scuttled the chain of command provision, Collins, an original co-sponsor of the measure, replied: “Clearly.”  But not everyone agrees that cooperation is a bad thing.  Levin defended the work of his committee and the Pentagon.  “We don’t demur to the agencies. We’re responsible for legislation. They’ve got their responsibility. We have ours. They want us to do things we don’t do. We don’t rubber-stamp their budget by any stretch of the imagination,” Levin said in an interview, noting that the items in his legislation came from about 30 senators.  McCaskill a former county prosecutor, believes the military hierarchy — and Pentagon buy-in — is critical to solving the problem of sexual assault.  “There’s an honest disagreement over which version is going to protect sexual assault victims better,” McCaskill said. “I want to make sure everybody understands what this is about, I mean, I think people know I’m not into coddling the Pentagon. I think they know I’m a real sex-crimes prosecutor. And I would never do anything that I didn’t think was going to result in more and better prosecutions.”  After meetings at the Pentagon and in her office with key military leaders, like Marine Corps Commandant Gen. James Amos and Air Force chief of staff Gen. Mark Welsh, as well as lawyers from the Judge Advocate General’s Corps representing the different service branches, McCaskill said she reached the conclusion that it’d be best to leave the chain of command alone.  One Democratic aide close to the process explained that Levin’s senior staff spent a lot of time with military lawyers working on sexual assault language to “diagram the process and understand how it works.”  “We bounced [the different bills] against them and try to understand how they work and what will work and what won’t, but they’ve not been generated by DOD,” a senior Senate Democratic aide said, defending the process.  Many observers say it’s not just that the Pentagon works the system, but that it is embedded in it.  Nearly every Democratic and GOP member of the Armed Services committees has a career military officer working as a fellow — whose salary is paid by the Pentagon — to help craft legislation, unravel the department’s labyrinth of offices and sub-offices and decipher acronyms.  “Imagine if we had bankers serving as fellows for the Financial Services Committee. Would we do that?” said Rep. Jackie Speier (D-Calif.), who has been pushing the military for years on sexual assault.  Plus there are Capitol Hill liaisons, members of the military who regularly meet with key Hill staff to make the Pentagon’s case on a variety of issues. And three- and four-star generals also have little trouble securing meetings to make their own personal appeals to key senators when necessary.  One of the military’s best assets is unheard of for any other special interest or agency: office space right inside the building. Each of the service branches has space in the basement of the Rayburn Office Building — across from a popular barber shop and food carryout and just one floor below the House Armed Services Committee’s offices and main hearing room. They also have offices a floor down from the Senate Armed Services Committee in the Russell Office Building.  The setup inspires close friendships between Hill staff and military staff. The Air Force Liaison Office holds a monthly happy hour in the Rayburn building. The aides and military lobbyists have even collaborated on a cookbook, titled “Savory Secrets of Congressional staffers … and their Dangerous Liaisons,” according to a recent email invite.  In this year’s debate over sexual assault, Senate Democratic aides said the Pentagon initially resisted weighing in on some of the high-profile options that were up for consideration, including Gillibrand’s chain of command bill and another one to expand the availability of special legal counsel for victims beyond an Air Force pilot program to all the service branches. But the Pentagon’s lobbying team stepped it up in May as Levin requested public testimony from the senior military leaders. Before a hearing in early June featuring the top Pentagon brass, each of the service branch chiefs responded to the committee with their opinions about some of the leading legislative proposals. All slammed Gillibrand’s approach: Gen. Martin Dempsey, chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, wrote, “Conveyance of a message that commanders cannot be trusted will only serve to undermine good order and discipline.”  Defense officials didn’t rule out everything, though. With some word tweaks, they could welcome legislation ending the practice in which commanders had authority to overturn jury convictions. Also acceptable was a prohibition on enlistments for anyone convicted of sexual assault. That was Pentagon policy anyway.  And rather than language that would have prohibited sexual contact outright between trainers and trainees, Dempsey and the other branch leaders urged further study to make sure there weren’t unintended consequences. Levin’s bill released a couple weeks later punted on the ban and instead urged Secretary of Defense Chuck Hagel to report back within 120 days on legislative options to handle the issue.  “DOD does have a lot of pull in the building, but at the end of the day they can’t send the secretary of defense to cast his own vote,” said a Senate Democratic aide who works on defense issues. “They have to work with some offices to achieve what they want to achieve.”  Col. Alan Metzler, deputy director of DOD’s Sexual Assault Prevention and Response Office, said in an interview that the department has been working with lawmakers throughout the spring and summer on legislative options — just not Gillibrand’s approach.  “We’re committed to working with the Congress to implement solutions that get after solving this problem,” he said. “I can tell you we’re open to lots of different approaches. But one of the centerpieces the department has taken is we believe the commander needs to be more involved, not less.”  Metzler and Major Gen. Gary Patton, the SAPRO director, also spent a week on Capitol Hill in early May — at the same time it was releasing its survey showing a spike last year to 26,000 sexual assaults — briefing committee staffers and individual members on legislative options and “where they could assist us.”  Congress looks at the prevention office, Metzler said, “as being a straight shooter.”  This issue isn’t new. There have been a number of high-profile incidents over the years, including the scandal in 1991 when Navy and Marine Corps officers allegedly assaulted more than 80 women and seven men during the annual Tailhook convention in Las Vegas. The Air Force Academy faced scrutiny in 2003 when its leadership was accused of ignoring sexual assault reports and retaliation against victims who spoke up. And in 2011, 35 training instructors at Lackland Air Force Base in San Antonio were removed from their jobs amid investigations into sexual harassment and sexual assault.  Sending legislative language back and forth between the Hill and the Pentagon is not uncommon. Committee leaders demand that amendments to the annual defense authorization bill are sent to Pentagon lawyers for review before the markup.  Said a House Democratic aide close to the process: “You can look at the fellows in every office to the vetting of all the amendments with the professional staff of HASC and SASC respectively, their hand in glove interaction with the Pentagon, you don’t sneak anything by them. Things get vetted and there are bright lines you don’t cross and those are determined by the Pentagon.”  Sen. Jack Reed (D-R.I.) said in an interview that the Pentagon doesn’t get to use a veto pen on what the committee produces, but he said they do get asked their opinion.  “We have to go ahead and not only ask legal experts, but you also have to ask experts whose jobs and lives have been dedicated to leading soldiers, and sailors, Marines and airmen and doing it conscientiously. In many cases, [we] ask them what their point of view is,” said Reed, who is next in line for the Democrats to replace Levin atop the Armed Services Committee next Congress when the chairman retires.  Others like Sen. Richard Burr (R-N.C.) said Pentagon support is key.  “They’re managing the day to days of it, I dare say if they’re not supportive of something, the likelihood is we’re going to have problems with it,” said Burr, a member of West Point’s Board of Visitors.  Pentagon power was on display in 2011 when nearly all of the military sexual assault provisions in the defense bill were scrapped in a House-Senate conference committee. Several sources tracking the issue said the military prevailed there as a concession from Congress after it lost on the “don’t ask, don’t tell” repeal.  Chris Jehn, assistant secretary of defense for Force Management and Personnel under President George H.W. Bush, said too often lawmakers “defer to the judgment of senior military on so many issues and in my judgment the respect goes beyond the respect they ought to be given.”  Gillibrand told POLITICO that she’s trying to work around the military when she can. She noted that senators with strong Pentagon contacts are nearly universally against her proposed change. The New York Democrat said many legislative aides with ties to the military have developed “client-itis” — so she has been urging her fellow senators to avoid consulting staffers who will seek Pentagon counsel and then report back their objections.  “People’s viewpoints are often determined by who is advising them. If they talk to victims, nine out of 10 they will side with our approach,” Gillibrand said. “If they’re not talking to the victims and only being advised by the military, they typically won’t [support me] unless they have someone in the military who’s experienced this or knows someone who’s experienced this. That then changes their view completely.”  Still, there are some examples of Congress bucking the Pentagon. In the early 1990s, Sens. Ted Kennedy and William Roth won on the floor with an amendment repealing a ban on women from flying aircraft engaged in combat missions — despite opposition from the uniformed heads of services and after losing in the Senate Armed Services Committee. Lawmakers in the 1980s also overhauled the Pentagon’s entire command structure and created the Special Operations Command amid objections from the Reagan administration-led DOD.  The Pentagon “can boot it into the stands along with the best of them,” said Arnold Punaro, a former Senate Armed Services Committee staff director and retired Marine Corps major general.  Rep. Mike Turner, who has been working on sexual assault issue for years, said ongoing conversations with DOD have helped make sure there aren’t unintended consequences coming from legislation. The Ohio Republican said this was the case during the mid-2000s when lawmakers repealed a key section of the military code of justice dealing with definitions of rape. It wasn’t until later that they learned about the side effects for pretrial pleadings and plea bargains, forcing them to go back and fix the legislation.  It’s the unintended consequences that one DOD official said gives the Pentagon reason to be so engaged with Congress, especially considering the low percentage of Americans who have served and understand its unique culture and legal system.  “I think that based upon our experience and our education and the number of positions our leaders have taken over the course of their career, they’ve built up an understanding of what those second- and third-order effects will be. So we’re able to articulate that within that dialogue,” said the DOD official who works on legislative issues. “Oftentimes, to an uninformed audience or reader or someone who’s looking at it from the outside who doesn’t fully understand the second- and third-order effects, it can appear that the DOD gets what it wants. But I think that’s an unfair statement.”  McCaskill, who is a key supporter of Levin’s proposal, said she wouldn’t bow to anyone — not even the president — when it comes to how to legislate military sexual assault. And she believes lawmakers helped push the military to accept some key changes to the Uniform Code of Military Justice, including removing the authority of a commander to overturn a jury conviction. That’s something the Pentagon completely opposed at the start of 2013.  “This is way too important to me to make a decision based on what is politically correct,”McCaskill said. Pointing to the breath of provisions included in the Senate’s defense bill, she added, “If you really understand these issues and you look at the bill that came out of committee, somebody would really have to not understand if they thought we were somehow protecting the Pentagon.” 
