"We need to start treating these deaths seriously and respecting these survivors by upping our game in public health," April Foreman, a board member at the American Association of Suicidology, told USA Today. (Alexander Possingham/Unsplash)When the pandemic seized New York, Dr. Lorna Breen, a 49-year-old emergency room doctor who worked at New York-Presbyterian Allen Hospital and Columbia University Medical Center, found herself in the trenches alongside physicians toiling through 18-hour days and sleeping in hospital hallways. When Breen contracted COVID-19 herself, she took a week and a half off, only to suffer from exhaustion once she went back to work. Her family brought her to stay with them in Virginia, where Breen seemed detached, according to her father. She was also deeply disturbed, he said, after witnessing so much death and suffering of patients. On the last Sunday in April, Breen was rushed to the hospital with self-inflicted injuries, and later pronounced dead. "Make sure she's praised as a hero, because she was," her father, Dr. Philip Breen, told The New York Times. "She's a casualty just as much as anyone else who has died." COVID-19 has been associated with other suicides that drew widespread media attention, including a German state finance minister who appears to have taken his own life while worried about economic disaster, a British teenager distressed by social distancing measures, and an Italian nurse who feared spreading the virus to other people. One county in Washington state reported a surge in deaths by suicide, mostly of men in their 30s and 40s, since the outbreak began. Researchers fear the phenomenon could become more widespread: In a commentary published last month in medical journal The Lancet Psychiatry, an international group of suicide experts advocated "urgent consideration" to prevent a rise in suicide rates, especially as COVID-19 – and its devastatating economic impact – drag on for months. "These are unprecedented times," the authors wrote. "The pandemic will cause distress and leave many people vulnerable to mental health problems and suicidal behaviour." In 2018, the most recent year for which data is available, more than 48,000 Americans died by suicide, according to the Centers for Disease Control, ranking it the country's 10th-leading cause of death. And while many countries have seen their suicide rates decline in recent years, in the U.S. the rate has increased 35% since 1999, from 10.5 deaths per 100,000 people to 14.2, an alarming rise that's also prompted a call to action among health professionals. "That's not acceptable," April Foreman, a board member at the American Association of Suicidology, told USA Today. "We need to start treating these deaths seriously and respecting these survivors by upping our game in public health."Suicides have previously increased in connection with major crises. There is evidence that deaths by suicide increased during the 1918 Spanish flu and 2003 SARS outbreak, the Lancet authors note. The suicide rate in the United States also rose significantly in the first few years following the 2008 Great Recession, as millions of Americans faced a new level of financial hardship. Yet while on a macro level wide-scale tragedies are clear sources of stress and psychological pain, on an individual level, experts say, the reasons behind any particular suicide are typically more nuanced. "Suicidal people often have multiple factors that contribute to their risk," says Jane Pearson, chair of the Suicide Research Consortium at the National Institute of Mental Health. "It's not just one thing." Suicide data is also notoriously slow to materialize, meaning it will likely be years before hard numbers are available on the number of deaths by suicide during the early months of COVID-19. Some suicide crisis lines, including in the San Francisco Bay Area, have reported a surge in calls during the pandemic, although Pearson notes that an increase in calls doesn't necessarily indicate an increase in actual suicides – high volumes can also be a good sign, if it means more people are reaching out for help. "From where we sit, it's just really hard to know about the deaths," she says, "and we can also imagine that coroners and medical examiners are overwhelmed, so it might take even longer."Although some suicide deaths during the pandemic have been associated with highly specific psychological stress – the front-line medical professionals facing grueling circumstances, for instance – the more sweeping consequences of the pandemic, including physical distancing measures, also may pose a risk to the general public, the Lancet authors write. People with and without existing psychiatric disorders may experience exacerbated symptoms because of loneliness or financial stress. Underlying behavioral contributors, like domestic violence and alcoholism, also may increase. Yet a rise in suicide during the pandemic is not inevitable, the authors emphasize, if authorities enact vigilant public health measures. In the U.S., Pearson says, the field of suicide prevention is also working to adapt practices to better serve people in the age of COVID-19, including with recommendations for front-line workers and through revised guidelines for telemedicine treatment. In a way, she adds, the collective nature of the pandemic also presents a rare chance to educate the public about suicide prevention and mental health, because so many people are hurting at the same time. "It's an opportunity to be able to talk about this," she says. "We're trying to see how this broad experience can be used in a favorable way, to help people understand more about actually improving their mental health and help them understand (what) they can do to help others, to help themselves." 