    Obama praised those at Camp Pendleton for their work in Afghanistan and Iraq. CAMP PENDLETON, Calif. — President Barack Obama came here Wednesday to tell Marines that by refusing to reverse the sequester cuts, Congress is failing to live up to the Corps’ motto — Semper Fidelis.  “After all you’ve given to our nation, you have to know your nation will always be faithful to you,” Obama said.  The event was Obama’s first visit to a military base since he was in Hawaii around Christmas, and his first speech about the massive, across-the-board cuts within the context of his economic message framing tour. And he seized the opportunity to call new attention to a situation that is “not how a great nation should be treating its military and military families.”  ( PHOTOS: Obama’s second term)  Obama said he knows everyone stationed at Camp Pendleton is already familiar with how severe the first round of furloughs and scaled back training has been. He said he won’t stand for that continuing.  “We’ve got right now the best-led, best-trained, best-equipped military in human history,” Obama said, trying to rouse the crowd of just under 3,000 primarily Marines, but some Navy and some civilians, who gathered in a hangar on this Southern Californian base framed by assembled helicopters and military ground vehicles, the mountains rising not far in the distance.  “As long as I’m commander-in-chief, I’m going to keep it that way. But we’re going to need some help from Washington,” he said. “You get up and do your jobs every day. Let’s make sure Washington gets up and does its job.  “And what makes me frustrated is that sometimes the very folks who say they stand with our military, the same folks are standing in the way of the sequester. It’s important to look at deeds, and not just words.”  ( Also on POLITICO: Obama: Sexual assault 'undermines' military)  Obama also mentioned the issue of military sexual assault — a widespread problem throughout the armed services that commanders and members of Congress have disagreed how to handle.  The president said he wanted people at this base and others to hear directly from their commander-in-chief about the “crimes of sexual assault” that stand in direct contrast to the “integrity and honor” that should define the armed forces.  “It undermines what this military stands for, and it undermines what the Marine Corps stands for when sexual assault takes place in our units,” Obama said. “That message is coming all the way from the top.”  ( Also on POLITICO: Obama on recent threats: 'We don't get terrorized')  Against a backdrop of men and women in their desert digital camouflage and the standard enormous American flag, Obama stressed the need to take care of military families and veterans, and to ensure the government stays invested in job training for members of the military after they leave the armed services.  Obama praised those at Camp Pendleton for their work in Afghanistan and Iraq, noting again that the American presence there would be down to 34,000 by the end of the year, and entirely absent by next year.  “The end of the war in Afghanistan doesn’t mean the end of threats to our nation,” Obama said, reflecting on the current unspecified threat that’s shuttered Middle East embassies for the week, and pledging to stand with allies and keep up the fight for human rights and dignity even in the face of attacks. “Here’s what those who would cowardly attack our civilians don’t get: the United States is never going to retreat from the world,” Obama said. “We don’t get terrorized.”  Between landing at the base in his helicopter, Obama met privately with wounded warriors and Gold Star families.  House Armed Services Chair Buck McKeon (R-Calif.) said he was glad that Obama was out talking to the troops Wednesday — but said he wished the president would spend a little more time listening to them, too.  Citing evidence he says points to the Defense Department’s unwillingness to fully say how much of an impact the cuts have had, McKeon rejected the idea that the Republicans need to give in on the sequester cuts, and said the responsibility is on Obama to stop lumping the defense cuts in with the rest of the sequester cuts at the expense of getting no deal at all.  “Unless he steps up and takes responsibility that he has from the Constitution of being the commander-in-chief, of looking out for this nation’s defense and our allies, and commitments around the world,” McKeon said, “then he’s not living up to his constitutional responsibilities.”  Obama has put the blame for the sequester squarely on House Speaker John Boehner (R-Ohio) and his fellow House Republicans, pointing to their refusal to even talk face-to-face about stopping them until the March 1 deadline. Since then, the president’s been in a public relations pit of his own digging: ahead of the deadline, he warned repeatedly of how devastating they would be — but their gradual phasing-in has kept most people from sensing the effects even now, almost six months later.  Obama has so far said he won’t agree to a deal which restores military spending without also reversing cuts to education and other social programs — and neither he nor Congress has shown much interest in discussing terms before what’s expected to be a long fall of bargaining over raising the debt ceiling, passing a continuing resolution to keep funding flowing and averting a government shutdown.  In the meantime, Defense Secretary Chuck Hagel last week warned that the cuts — $52 billion next year in the first phase of $500 billion over a decade — had left the military facing the choice between being high-tech but too small for major conflicts, or under-equipped overall. His projections showed that the Army would have to reduce active-duty troops to 380,000, instead of a planned 490,000.  Hagel has the Defense Department working on strategies to backload the cuts, but said keeping the sequester in place would lead to a “decade-long modernization holiday”— complicating efforts that he and Obama called a priority.  McKeon said Obama’s prime focus needs to be in leading Congress toward a way to roll back the defense cuts.  “Our allies and our adversaries are watching very carefully what we’re doing, and we seem to be in full retreat,” McKeon said. “And when we pull back, that leaves a vacuum of leadership we’ve provided since World War II. … Nobody fears us, nobody thinks we’re going to follow through on what we say.” 
