Europe|Make Room for God, Pope Says at Christmas Eve Masshttps://www.nytimes.com/2012/12/25/world/europe/pope-calls-on-faithful-to-make-room-for-god.htmlMake Room for God, Pope Says at Christmas Eve MassCredit...Vincenzo Pinto/Agence France-Presse — Getty ImagesDec. 24, 2012ROME — Pope Benedict XVI, delivering his annual Christmas Eve message in a voice that sometimes seemed to waver, called on the faithful to make room for God in their thoughts and busy, technology-filled lives. During a Christmas Eve Mass for more than 10,000 people in St. Peter’s Basilica, Benedict also prayed for peace in the Middle East and called for an end to violence in Syria. In a poetic homily that touched on some of his deepest preoccupations — secularism, the violence of the 20th century — the theologian pope meditated on the role of God in people’s lives, starting from the notion that when Jesus was born, Mary and Joseph were told there was no room at the inn.“The great moral question of our attitude toward the homeless, towards refugees and migrants, takes on a deeper dimension: Do we really have room for God when he seeks to enter under our roof? Do we have time and space for him?” Benedict said.“The faster we can move, the more efficient our timesaving appliances become, the less time we have. And God? The question of God never seems urgent. Our time is already completely full.” “There is no room for him,” he added. “Not even in our feelings and desires is there any room for him. We want ourselves. We want what we can seize hold of, we want happiness that is within our reach, we want our plans and purposes to succeed. We are so ‘full’ of ourselves that there is no room left for God. And that means there is no room for others either, for children, for the poor, for the stranger.” The 85-year-old pontiff often appeared tired, his voice hoarse. He arrived at the altar and left the basilica on a wheeled red-carpeted platform meant to save his strength. For several years, the traditional midnight Mass has begun at 10 p.m. to help preserve his energy during his intense schedule during the Christmas season. The pope also prayed for “all those who live and suffer” in the Middle East today, calling for an end to the Israeli-Palestinian conflict and the end of violence “in Lebanon, Iraq, Syria and their neighbors.”