NEWYou can now listen to Fox News articles!  Kanye West has a supporter in his wife Kim Kardashian.On Saturday, West, 43, announced on Twitter his intention to run for president, seemingly in the upcoming 2020 election."We must now realize the promise of America by trusting God, unifying our vision and building our future," he said online. "I am running for president of the United States! #2020VISION."KANYE WEST TWEETS HE'S 'RUNNING FOR PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES,' REFERENCES '2020 VISION'While Elon Musk offered support on Twitter, the "Power" rapper has a fan even closer to home in Kardashian, 39.“Kanye has been planning this for years and Kim has known about his aspirations and has been supportive,” a source told Us Weekly. “Kanye is passionate about arts and education and wants to support in any way he can.”Now a first lady-hopeful, the media personality shared her hubby's announcement on Twitter, adding an American flag emoji.MEGHAN MARKLE, PRINCE HARRY'S SON ARCHIE, 1, IT 'JUST ABOUT WALKING', ROYAL EXPERT SAYSBBC reports that West has not registered his name with the Federal Election Commission yet, the closest name to his being from 2015 when a "Kanye Deez Nutz West" ran under the Green party with the address "1977 Golddigger Avenue, Suite Yeezus," though they appeared to have raised no money.It was unclear if West has a campaign staff as of this time.     Kim Kardashian and Kanye West. (Photo by Karwai Tang/Getty Images)    This isn't the first time West has said he will run for president. He claimed back in 2019, during his appearance at the Fast Company Innovation Festival in New York City, that he was planning to run in 2024."When I run for president in 2024, we're going to definitely — yo, whatchu [sic] all laughing at?" he said at the time. "When I run for president in 2024, we would've created so many jobs that, in fact, I'm going to walk."CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APPWest added: "What I'm saying is, when y'all read the headlines, 'Kanye's crazy,' this and that, this and that, it's like one in three African-Americans are in jail and all of the celebrities are in jail also because they can't say nothing [sic]! They've got no opinion! They're so scared!" Fox News' Nick Givas and Joseph Wulfsohn contributed to this report.