                        	AP                       WASHINGTON — President Trump tried to alleviate fears of a recession on Sunday, echoing recent statements from his top economic advisers.
“I don’t see a recession,” Trump said as he headed to Washington, DC, after vacationing in Bedminster, New Jersey.
He added: “I’m prepared for everything. I don’t think we’re having a recession.”
The comments came after the president reportedly spent portions of his time in Bedminster fretting over what a global economic downturn could do to his re-election prospects.
His campaign message has highlighted his role in the economic boom and bulging 401(k)s.
On Sunday, Trump also used his time on the tarmac talk to go after China.
“I mean the world is in a recession right now,” Trump commented. “China is doing very, very poorly.”
Trump attributed those comments to the ongoing trade war as his administration still seeks to ink an elusive trade deal with the economic power.
He wouldn’t say when he most recently talked to Chinese President Xi Jinping, but said he planned to hold firm on pressuring China on trade in order to get a better eventual deal.
“I’m not ready to make a deal,” Trump said Sunday.
Trump also told reporters that he realized the protests in Hong Kong could make things more politically difficult for him even if a good deal with China gets sketched out.
“If they do something negative, it puts pressure,” he said.
“Now that deal I can sign by myself … I don’t have to go to Congress, but I respect Congress. And I respect the views of the people of our country and I think it would be much harder to sign a deal if he did something violent in Hong Kong.”
The president encouraged his Chinese counterpart to sit down with representatives of the protesters and work something out.
“That’s not his deal, sitting down with people, he doesn’t do that,” Trump said. “But I think maybe the world changes … if he sat down, I think they’d work something out and it would be great for everybody.”                                             