        An account pulled from Twitter for appearing to belong to former President Donald Trump’s newly launched communications platform was not created by the ex-commander-in-chief’s team, The Post has learned. The 45th president on Tuesday revealed his new website, “From the Desk of Donald J. Trump,” which allows him to provide his thoughts in Twitter-style posts that can then be shared on social media sites from which he has been banned. The site is meant to serve as “a place to speak freely and safely,” a statement from Team Trump said. The team is working on developing the site further to give him the ability to communicate directly with his followers. An account appearing to belong to the former president’s new platform, @DJTDesk, emerged on the social media site shortly after — but a source close to Team Trump told The Post that the account “was not created by anyone on President Trump’s team.” Still, by Wednesday evening, Twitter had suspended the account. Reached for comment by The Post, including questions on the validity of the account, Twitter stood by the decision despite the identity of the user remaining unknown and seemingly not connected to the former president. “As stated in our ban evasion policy, we’ll take enforcement action on accounts whose apparent intent is to replace or promote content affiliated with a suspended account,” a Twitter spokesperson said. Donald Trump’s new website, “From the Desk of Donald J. Trump,” allows him to provide his thoughts in Twitter-style posts.AFP via Getty Images The platform permanently banned the then-president following the Jan. 6 Capitol riot. At the time, Twitter defended its suspension as “due to the risk of further incitement of violence.” The company’s continued position that it will not consider allowing him back on its platform, even if he were to return to public office, has rubbed many the wrong way, including some of Trump’s political opponents. Facebook, meanwhile, ordered an indefinite ban on the president. In the three months since banning the then-president, Facebook deferred to its Oversight Board to make a final call on letting Trump return to its platforms. Facebook’s Oversight Board made the decision Wednesday to uphold its ban of the former president.REUTERS On Wednesday morning, the board announced it would be upholding the ban but said an indefinite suspension of Trump’s account was inappropriate and the company has six months to specify new penalties. Trump slammed the decision in a statement — which couldn’t be shared on social media — in which he said that the companies censoring him “must pay a political price.” “What Facebook, Twitter, and Google have done is a total disgrace and an embarrassment to our Country. Free Speech has been taken away from the President of the United States because the Radical Left Lunatics are afraid of the truth, but the truth will come out anyway, bigger and stronger than ever before,” he said in an emailed statement. “The People of our Country will not stand for it! These corrupt social media companies must pay a political price, and must never again be allowed to destroy and decimate our Electoral Process,” he said. In the final month of the heated 2020 presidential race, The Post revealed a trove of emails from Hunter Biden’s laptop that raised questions about then-candidate Joe Biden’s ties to his son’s foreign business ventures in Ukraine and China– which resulted in The Post’s Twitter account being immediately locked and links to the story disabled on the platform. The water-damaged MacBook Pro was dropped off for repair at a Delaware computer shop in April 2019, but the individual who dropped it off never returned to pick it up. It was seized by the FBI in December of that year. Twitter permanently banned President Donald Trump following the Jan. 6 Capitol riot.Getty Images Immediately following the release of The Post’s exposé, Twitter demanded The Post delete six tweets that linked to the stories based on files from the abandoned laptop in order to regain account access, finally caving and unlocking the account after a two-week stalemate. During that time, The Post refused to remove the tweets and actually gained followers. At a Senate hearing just two weeks after The Post’s return to the site, Twitter CEO Jack Dorsey conceded that the company made “a mistake” in its actions. “We recognize it as a mistake that we made, both in terms of the intention of the policy and also the enforcement action of not allowing people to share it publicly or privately,” said Dorsey, responding to a question from Sen. John Cornyn (R-Texas) about the forced media blackout. Twitter maintains it would not consider allowing Donald Trump back on its platform, even if he were to return to public office.AFP via Getty Images Asked again in March at a Congressional hearing on misinformation and social media about the matter, Dorsey reiterated his assertion that the move was a “total mistake.” “It was literally just a process error. This was not against them in any particular way,” Dorsey told the House Energy and Commerce Committee. “If we remove a violation we require people to correct it,” he added. “We changed that based on their not wanting to delete that tweet, which I completely agree with. I see it. But it is something we learn.”   	