      	Even in death, Supreme Court Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg continued to make history, on Friday becoming the first woman to lie in state in the US Capitol.
Ginsburg, who died at 87 last week due to complications from metastatic pancreatic cancer, was also the first person of Jewish faith to receive the honor, capping days of commemoration of her extraordinary life.
The lauded jurist and women’s rights icon will be interred at Arlington National Cemetery next week after her flag-draped coffin was displayed inside the Statuary Hall on Friday on a catafalque built for President Abraham Lincoln’s casket.
Just before 10 a.m., an honor guard carried Ginsburg’s flag-draped coffin up the steps of the Capitol where hundreds of high-profile mourners paid their respects.
Democratic presidential nominee Joe Biden and his wife, Dr. Jill Biden, were among the mourners paying tribute to Ginsburg, in addition to his running mate, Sen. Kamala Harris (D-Calif.).
Biden was last at the Capitol in July to pay tribute to the late Congressman and civil rights leader John Lewis, whose death came at the peak of a nationwide reckoning on race.
Ginsburg was renowned for the fitness regime she maintained into her 80s, and her personal trainer of two decades, Bryant Johnson, was filmed doing three push-ups in front of her casket in a moving personal tribute after most people had left the hall.
House Speaker Nancy Pelosi (D-Calif.) and Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer (D-NY) were on hand to welcome and bid farewell to Ginsburg’s casket, but top Republicans, including Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-Ky.) and Rep. Kevin McCarthy (R-Calif.), the House’s GOP leader, were noticeably absent.
Rep. Steve Scalise (R-La.) was one of the few Republicans in attendance. Defense Secretary Mark Esper and General Mark Milley, the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, were the only members of the administration at Ginsburg’s Capitol memorial. Ginsburg’s casket was on public view on the steps of the Supreme Court for several days before it was taken by hearse on a short procession across the street Friday morning for the private remembrance.
President Trump’s visit to the court on Thursday turned sour when mourners began loudly booing and jeering as he paid his respects.
The justice was a renowned lover of opera, and mourners Friday were serenaded by soprano Denyce Graves, one of Ginsburg’s favorite opera singers, and heard the first rabbinical sermon in the Capitol’s Statuary Hall.
“All of the days of her life she pursued justice, even in illness,” Rabbi Lauren Holtzblatt said. “Now she must be laid to rest after toiling so hard for the rest of us.”
The Brooklyn-born jurist’s death has sparked an intense political battle as Democrats try to stop President Trump from nominating a third conservative justice to the court, changing the ideological leaning of the bench for the foreseeable future with just 39 days until the election.
The honor of lying in state has been bestowed on 37 other people, including 12 presidents.
Ginsburg persevered through five bouts of cancer and vowed to remain at the Supreme Court as long as she could do the job “at full steam,” working right up until May when the court handed down their verdicts on Trump’s tax returns.
President Trump plans to announce his nomination Saturday of a woman to take Ginsburg’s place on the high court, where she served for 27 years and was the leader of the liberal justices.
Ginsburg, the second woman to serve on the Supreme Court, will be buried next week in Arlington National Cemetery beside her husband, Martin, who died in 2010.
Flags in Washington will remain at half-mast for the next 30 days.   	