        The presidential debate commission is considering giving the moderator the opportunity to cut a candidate’s mic at the next matchup between President Trump and Joe Biden, it was revealed Wednesday.
The debate commission announced that it will adopt changes in order to avoid a repeat of Tuesday night’s clash between the candidates, which has been referred to as a “dumpster fire” and a “sh–storm.”
The Associated Press reported that one change being discussed is giving the moderator the ability to cut off the microphone of one of the debate participants while his opponent is talking.
The debate commission only released a statement that said: “Last night’s debate made clear that additional structure should be added to the format of the remaining debates to ensure a more orderly discussion of the issues.”
They added that the commission “will be carefully considering the changes that it will adopt and will announce those measures shortly.”
Trump campaign communications director Tim Murtaugh said the commission was only making the changes “because their guy got pummeled last night.” The presidential debate commission is a non-partisan entity.
US President Donald J. Trump and Democratic presidential candidate Joe BidenEPA
The first presidential debate was marred by constant interruptions as both Trump and Biden talked over each other. Debate moderator Chris Wallace accused Trump of being the more boisterous offender.
“Well, frankly, you’ve been doing more interrupting than he has,” Wallace said to Trump at one point.
Biden also heckled Trump, calling him a “clown” and telling him to “shut up.”
Wallace was widely panned for not controlling the discussion. CNN’s Jake Tapper called the event a “hot mess inside a dumpster fire inside a train wreck.”
Even Wallace appeared to be shell shocked by the unsettling nature of the discussion.
“I never dreamt that it would go off the tracks the way it did,” Wallace said in an interview with the New York Times after the contest.
However, the Nielsen company said that 73.1 million people tuned in, more than any other television event since the Super Bowl. The event did, however, fall short of the 84 million who watched the first debate between Trump and Hillary Clinton in 2016.
The next presidential debate is a town hall format scheduled for Oct. 15 in Miami.   	