       Facebook      
Twitter      
Reddit      
LinkedIn       Gab             Get the latest BPR news delivered free to your inbox daily. SIGN UP HERE
CHECK OUT WeThePeople.store for best SWAG!
C-Span host Steve Scully—a former intern for Democrat Joe Biden— reactivated his Twitter account but turned it private after claiming he was hacked when the account appeared to accidentally tweet a direct message from Scully to Trump foe Anthony Scaramucci. Scaramucci is a vocal Biden supporter.
Scully, a Democrat, was widely slammed because the message suggested that he was plotting with Scaramucci to attack President Trump at the now-canceled second presidential debate, which Scully was set to moderate. Many didn’t believe Scully’s claim that his account was hacked because he has a history of using that same excuse whenever he gets criticized for an inappropriate post. In both 2012 and 2013, Scully claimed that his account had been hacked in response to backlash over tasteless remarks he had tweeted.
In 2012, Scully tweeted: “I apologize for Saturday’s tweets regarding weight loss. Darn those hackers.”
In 2013, Scully lamented again: “I apologize for some earlier tweets…account was hacked…those tweets did not come from me.”
https://twitter.com/mikehahn_/status/1314644567824764929
The Commission on Presidential Debates canceled the second debate, which was scheduled for October 15, after President Trump balked at doing a virtual debate.
“It is now apparent there will be no debate on October 15, and the CPD will turn its attention to preparations for the final presidential debate scheduled for October 22,” the commission said in a statement.
Meanwhile, Steve Scully’s damning direct-message exchange with Scaramucci — coupled with his apparent anti-Trump animus and his internship with former senator Biden — has raised doubts about his credibility as an unbiased debate moderator.
Scully also once worked as a staffer for the late Democrat Senator Ted Kennedy.
During the 2016 presidential race, Scully shared a New York Times op-ed on Twitter, writing: “No, Not Trump, Not Ever.”
Many remarked Scully has irreparably eroded his credibility.
“He’s a debate moderator who interned for Joe Biden, tweeted out “not Trump, not ever,” and now got exposed [for] coordinating with Scaramucci and is blaming ‘hackers.’ There is no coming back from this. He’s done.”
I don't care how "good" of a person Steve Scully is. He's a debate moderator who interned for Joe Biden, tweeted out "not Trump, not ever," and now got exposed to have been coordinating with Scaramucci and is blaming "hackers."
There is no coming back from this. He's done. pic.twitter.com/Lcx35feoL2
— Caleb Hull (@CalebJHull) October 9, 2020
Scully’s Twitter account was deactivated for most of Friday, but political commentator Stephen Miller shared Scully’s first tweet after he reactivated it and made it private.
Scully tweeted: “Debates are a vital part of America’s democracy.”
Miller scoffed: “Debates are a vital part of Democracy, which is I’m f*cking around with Scaramucci and forcing a cancellation.”
“Debates are a vital part of Democracy which is I I’m fucking around with scaramucci and forcing a cancellation”
— Stephen L. Miller (@redsteeze) October 10, 2020
“Must have been the same “hackers” that got Joy Reid.”
In 2018, Joy Reid blamed “hackers” for shocking homophobic blog posts she apparently wrote.
Must have been the same hackers that got Joy Reid https://t.co/LBWFGp9e6H
— Daily Caller (@DailyCaller) October 9, 2020 The Commission on Presidential Debates is supposedly bipartisan w/ an equal number of Rs and Ds. I know all of the Republicans and most are friends of mine. I am concerned that none of them support @realDonaldTrump. A biased Debate Commission is unfair.
— Senator Bob Dole (@SenatorDole) October 9, 2020
Predictably, the mainstream media — which is overwhelmingly left-wing — either ignored or downplayed Scully’s latest Twitter debacle.
Former CBS News reporter Lara Logan has repeatedly sounded the alarm about the media, which she says are no longer objective journalists, but leftist political activists and propagandists.
Logan, a former correspondent for 60 Minutes, said the media in both the United States and around the world are left-wing, but the American media are “85% registered Democrats.”
Unlike in decades past, Lara said the media no longer hide their left-wing political agenda — and that’s a problem because it’s not their job to brainwash viewers.
“The media everywhere is mostly liberal, not just in the U.S. But in this country, 85 percent of journalists are registered Democrats.
[Given this fact] How do you know when you’re being lied to? How do you know when you’re being manipulated? How do you know there’s something not right with the coverage when they simplify it all, and there’s no gray? It’s all one way.
For example, all the coverage on Trump all the time is negative. That tells you that there’s a distortion of the way things go in real life.
Because although the media has always been left-leaning, we’ve abandoned our pretense or at least the effort to be objective. That’s not our job.
That means [journalists have] become political activists in a sense and, some could argue, propagandists.”
CBS News reporter Lara Logan: The media, 85% Dems, have become propagandists and liberal activists https://t.co/hRIVJ743h9
— POTUS Press ✩ (@POTUSPress) February 19, 2019 
DONATE TO BIZPAC REVIEW
Please help us! If you are fed up with letting radical big tech execs, phony fact-checkers, tyrannical liberals and a lying mainstream media have unprecedented power over your news please consider making a donation to BPR to help us fight them. Now is the time. Truth has never been more critical!  Success! Thank you for donating. Please share BPR content to help combat the lies.       
Facebook      
Twitter      
Reddit      
LinkedIn       Gab              Author Recent Posts Senior Staff Writer[email protected]Samantha Chang is a senior staff writer for BizPac Review. She is a financial editor and lawyer based in New York City.   