
A terror attack was carried out by two Palestinian terrorists today at a synagogue in Jerusalem, leaving four dead, three of whom were Americans identified as Aryeh Kupinsky, Kalmen Levin and Rabbi Moshe Twersky. Nine others were wounded. According to The Media Line, terrorists entered the synagogue early Tuesday morning and attacked worshipers with axes and guns. "Palestinian terrorists who entered a Jerusalem synagogue early Tuesday morning armed with guns and axes killed four worshipers and wounded nine others – four seriously -- before being shot dead by armed citizens and police who arrived on the scene," The Media Line reported early Tuesday. After the attack, masked Palestinian men in Gaza were photographed distributing food in celebration. This latest attack comes after a series of terror attacks in Jerusalem over the past few weeks, stoking fears of a third uprising among Palestinians living in Israel. Jerusalem Mayor Nir Barkat has called on the international community to condemn the most recent attack and the uprising of terrorism in the city. “Jerusalem bows its head in pain and sorrow on this difficult morning. Jerusalem residents peacefully praying in a synagogue in the heart of Jerusalem were cruelly slaughtered in cold blood while wearing their prayer shawls,” Barkat said in a statement. “I promise Jerusalem residents that we will continue to fight terror with full force and we will do everything in our power to restore peace and security to Jerusalem. I call on Israel’s national government and security forces to provide Jerusalem with all of the support necessary to fight terror. We will not surrender to terror. We will stand strong and defend our city from those who try to disturb the peace of our capital.” Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu said he will respond harshly. A statement from President Barack Obama hasn't been issued yet. attacking people in a house of worship is barbaric. #Jerusalem— Richard Grenell (@RichardGrenell) November 18, 2014
