                 	Attorney General William Barr       AP Photo/Jeff Roberson, File                        
Attorney General William Barr said Tuesday the Justice Department has not uncovered evidence of widespread voter fraud that would alter the 2020 presidential election outcome. In an interview with the Associated Press, the nation’s top law enforcement officer said US attorneys and FBI agents have been looking into specific complaints and other information they have received, but have found nothing that would change the outcome of the election.  “To date, we have not seen fraud on a scale that could have affected a different outcome in the election,” Barr told the AP. After Barr’s interview was published, he arrived for a meeting at the White House. The meeting was not previously on President Trump’s public schedule. Barr’s public revelation comes weeks after Barr authorized federal prosecutors to investigate allegations of “voting irregularities” in the 2020 election. At the time, President-elect Joe Biden’s team slammed Barr over the move, calling the decision a “clumsy and cynical partisan political scheme.” “It is deeply unfortunate that the Attorney General Barr chose to issue a memorandum that will only fuel the ‘specious, speculative, fanciful or far-fetched claims’ he professes to guard against,” said Bob Bauer, a senior Biden campaign attorney. In a statement, Trump’s personal attorney Rudy Giuliani and campaign senior legal adviser Jenna Ellis admonished Barr after he announced that prosecutors had found no evidence that would take back the White House. “With all due respect to the Attorney General, there hasn’t been any semblance of a Department of Justice investigation. We have gathered ample evidence of illegal voting in at least six states, which they have not examined. “We have many witnesses swearing under oath they saw crimes being committed in connection with voter fraud. As far as we know, not a single one has been interviewed by the DOJ. The Justice Department also hasn’t audited any voting machines or used their subpoena powers to determine the truth,” the statement read. Giuliani and Ellis went on to pledge to “continue our pursuit of the truth through the judicial system and state legislatures.” “Again, with the greatest respect to the Attorney General, his opinion appears to be without any knowledge or investigation of the substantial irregularities and evidence of systemic fraud.” With Post wires                                             