        A recently relieved Space Force commander claimed Monday night that the Pentagon sent servicemembers a video that claimed that America and white people were “evil.” Lt. Col. Matthew Lohmeier told Fox News’ “Hannity” that the videos “were sent out to every base [and] servicemember” and “we were asked to watch [them] in preparation for our extremism down days and discussions on race.” Those videos, Lohmeier added, “taught that the country was evil, that it was founded in 1619 and not 1776, and that whites are inherently evil.” Lohmeier did not specify when the videos were sent out beyond saying it had happened “in the past ten months, when I was in command of a unit.” 
However, in early February, Defense Secretary Lloyd Austin ordered a military-wide stand down in an effort to tackle domestic extremism in the ranks following the Jan. 6 riot at the U.S. Capitol. Capt. Matthew Lohmeier was reassigned from Space Force after promoting his book on a podcast.United States Air Force Lohmeier, a former commander of the 11th Space Warning Squadron at Buckley Air Force Base in Colorado, was temporarily reassigned last week due to comments he made on a podcast criticizing the military’s approach to diversity training. 
A Space Force spokesman told Military.com an investigation is underway to determine whether the comments constituted “prohibited partisan political activity.” 
“The diversity, inclusion and equity industry and the trainings we are receiving in the military … is rooted in critical race theory, which is rooted in Marxism,” Lohmeier told L. Todd Wood of the “Information Operation” podcast. 
Lohmeier appeared on the podcast to promote his new book, “Irresistible Revolution: Marxism’s Goal of Conquest & the Unmaking of the American Military.” In the book, Lohmeier claimed a “neo-Marxist agenda” had infiltrated the Pentagon and warned on the podcast in a comment directed at Austin that “this agenda, it will divide us, it will not unify us.” Capt. Matthew Lohmeier did not specify when the videos were sent out.YouTube However, he added that “my intent never has been to engage in partisan politics … I have written a book about a particular political ideology in the hope that our Defense Department might return to being politically non-partisan in the future as it has honorably throughout history.” The Space Force did not immediately respond to requests for comment about Lohmeier’s latest claims late Monday. 
The Pentagon recently sent videos to service members which said that America and white people were “evil.”YouTube   	