                 	Former US President Barack Obama (right) and Rep. Ilhan Omar (center) and Rep. Rashida Tlaib       Getty Images                        
All four members of “The Squad” fired back against former President Barack Obama’s criticism that the “defund the police” movement was just a “snappy slogan.” Reps. Ilhan Omar (D-MN), Rashida Tlaib (D-Michigan), Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez (D-NY) and Ayanna Pressley (D-Mass.) tweeted their responses to Obama, who said activists “lost a big audience” by pushing the movement for police reform. “We lose people in the hands of police. It’s not a slogan but a policy demand,” wrote Omar. “And centering the demand for equitable investments and budgets for communities across the country gets us progress and safety.” Tlaib appeared to call Obama a hypocrite. “Rosa Parks was vilified & attacked for her civil disobedience,” she wrote. “She was targeted. It’s hard seeing the same people who uplift her courage, attack the movement for Black lives that want us to prioritize health, funding of schools & ending poverty, rather than racist police systems. In a series of tweets, AOC said the whole point of activism and protests is to “make ppl uncomfortable.” “The thing that critics of activists don’t get is that they tried playing the ‘polite language’ policy game and all it did was make them easier to ignore,” she tweeted. “It wasn’t until they made folks uncomfortable that there was traction to do ANYTHING even if it wasn’t their full demands.” Pressley, meanwhile, said she was fed up. “The murders of generations of unarmed Black folks by police have been horrific,” she said. “Lives are at stake daily so I’m out of patience with critiques of the language of activists. Whatever a grieving family says is their truth. And I’ll never stop fighting for their justice & healing.” Getty Images Congressman-elect Jamaal Bowman, who beat out 16-term incumbent Rep. Eliot Engel for New York’s 16th Congressional District, also weighed in. “Damn, Mr. President. Didn’t you say ‘Trayvon could’ve been my son?'” Bowman tweeted. “In 2014, #BlackLivesMatter was too much. In 2016, Kaepernick was too much. Today, discussing police budgets is too much. The problem is America’s comfort with Black death — not discomfort with slogans.” In the interview with Peter Hamby’s Snapchat show “Good Luck America,” Obama suggested activists for police reform are sending the wrong message by calling to “defund the police.” “I guess you can use a snappy slogan, like Defund the Police, but, you know, you lost a big audience the minute you say it, which makes it a lot less likely that you’re actually going to get the changes you want done,” he said. “The key is deciding, do you want to actually get something done, or do you want to feel good among the people you already agree with?”                                             	