        Susan Rice has been tapped for a return to the White House as director of President-elect Joe Biden’s Domestic Policy Council. Rice, 56, was passed over by Biden this year after chatter that she was in the running to be his pick for vice president. Rice held the more prestigious post as national security adviser for President Barack Obama from 2013 to 2017, which came with a West Wing corner office diagonal from the Oval Office. The Domestic Policy Council occupies less-coveted space on the top floor of the West Wing and typically is headed by people who are not widely known to the public. The current officeholder is Brooke Rollins. Rice’s stature, however, will boost the council’s profile as Biden tries to push the US away from using oil and toward increasing taxes on the wealthy, despite a narrowly divided Congress. Rice’s government experience is mostly in foreign affairs and national security, rather than domestic policy, but she worked closely with Biden during his vice presidency, often sitting in the Oval Office during meetings with Obama. Her role will revive focus on Obama-era controversies, including her 2012 remarks falsely describing Muslim outrage over a viral video as the reason for a terrorist attack on the US consulate in Benghazi, Libya. She was UN ambassador at the time. After she left office, Rice was assailed by some Republicans for “unmasking” the identity of people linked to President Trump who were named in foreign intelligence reports. She told House investigators that she asked the intelligence community to un-redact the names to understand intelligence reports, including to learn why the crown prince of the United Arab Emirates visited New York in 2016. “Unmasking” was most controversial as applied to Rice’s successor, Trump’s first national security adviser Michael Flynn. Trump fired Flynn in February 2017 — but later pardoned him — for allegedly lying about the content of calls with Russia’s ambassador. Records released in May indicate that Rice was not among the officials who unmasked Flynn. A Trump Justice Department review on the legality of Obama-era unmasking of Trump associates ended this year without finding wrongdoing. Skeptical Republicans say that in some cases, “unmasking” might have been done so report contents could be used unfairly against Trump aides. The Biden presidential transition announced Rice’s new gig in an email blast. “With years of experience working at senior levels in the executive branch, Rice knows government inside and out and will carry through the President-elect’s vision of a newly empowered Domestic Policy Council and turbocharge the effort to build back better,” the transition office said. “Rice is among our nation’s most senior and experienced government leaders with the skills to harness the power of the federal government to serve the American people. As a former member of the Cabinet, she also understands the challenges and opportunities of running an agency and has extensive experience working with other key members of the Biden-Harris White House team, including the heads of NSC and NEC.”   	