Al Qaeda’s Yemen branch is claiming responsibility for last week's deadly attacks in Paris that killed 14 people, including three gunmen.   In a video posted online Nasr al-Ansi, a top leader from the group in the Arabian Peninsula, said the massacre at Charlie Hebdo was in vengeance for its satirical depictions of the Islamic Prophet Mohammed. He also said that France belongs to the "party of Satan" and warned of more tragedies and terror. Refusing to be cowed, Charlie Hebdo cartoonist Renald Luzier said, "The terrorists who attacked us want hatred between people. They also want hatred between the people they believe they are defending." In the wake of last week’s attacks, France’s prime minister is demanding tougher anti-terrorism measures. "France is at war against terrorism, jihadism and radical Islam," Prime Minister Manuel Valls said. Investigators say the two brothers who massacred the staff at Charlie Hebdo had accomplices because the weapons used in the attacks came from abroad.  Now authorities in several countries are searching for those possible accomplices and the sources of financing. On Tuesday, authorities in Bulgaria arrested a French citizen who may be linked to the two brothers who attacked the magazine.  But officials believe the girlfriend of the gunman who killed four people at a Jewish supermarket has escaped to join ISIS in Syria. France remains on its highest alert level this week, and security services in Britain are on high alert in the wake of the killings. New threats have also been aimed at U.S. airports. And lawyers for Boston Marathon supsect Dzhokhar Tsarnev have asked a judge to suspend jury selection in the trial for at least a month. They say a delay would allow some time for the extraordinary prejudice following for these events. Meanwhile, the first edition of Charlie Hebdo since the terror attacks features a picture of Islam’s Prophet Mohammed on the front cover. It sold out at newsstands across France -- within minutes of going on sale Wednesday.