        The House of Representatives on Wednesday approved President Biden’s $1.9 trillion COVID-19 stimulus bill, ending a grueling, monthlong fight on Capitol Hill. The American Rescue Plan Act passed 220-211 and gives $1,400 stimulus checks to Americans who earn less than $75,000 per year. It extends a $300 weekly unemployment supplement through Sept. 6. One Democrat — Rep. Jared Golden of Maine — joined all present Republicans in voting against Biden’s first major legislative achievement as president. The bill passed the Senate on Saturday in a party-line 50-49 vote. Republicans say the bill is wasteful as the pandemic ends with increasing vaccination and warn it could spur inflation. They specifically take issue with money being doled out to local governments and the fact that funds from the last stimulus bill have not yet been spent. 
But Democrats said it would ensure that the US economy doesn’t stagnate and will cut poverty. The final House vote was delayed by about an hour by a motion to adjourn from Rep. Marjorie Taylor Greene (R-Ga.). Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez (D-NY) walks through the US Capitol the morning of the final House vote on President Biden’s COVID-19 relief bill in Washington on March 10, 2021.REUTERS/Erin Scott Democrats hailed the bill as sweeping and historic. “Thankfully the misers are no longer in charge and help is on the way,” said Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (D-Fla.). “This legislation is one of the most transformative and historic bills any of us will ever have the opportunity to support,” House Speaker Nancy Pelosi (D-Calif.) said before the vote. “Let me heap praises on President Biden for the values, for the vision, the strategic thinking, for the knowledge that he has brought to what — as you said earlier — we had in the works for a while.” Biden will sign the bill on Friday, White House press secretary Jen Psaki said. House Minority Leader Kevin McCarthy (R-Calif.) slammed the bill as “socialism” and said money appropriated by the measure isn’t truly free — cueing up a debate over the bill’s legacy that’s likely to influence the 2022 midterm elections. House Speaker Nancy Pelosi arrives at the US Capitol the morning of the final House vote on President Biden’s COVID-19 relief bill in Washington on March 10, 2021.REUTERS/Erin Scott “We warn people on the internet about email scams, like the ones with those emails where you get a promise you’ll get millions of dollars. But first you have to wire them some money. It’s exactly what’s happening here today,” McCarthy said. “They’re telling the American public, first, give me $5,000. I know you have to work harder. But … because this is how socialism works, the Democrats are now going to decide who should get that money. And you know what, at least they give it to the people they respect the most.” He added that “it showers money on special interests, but spends less than 9 percent on actually defeating the virus.” McCarthy said that accounting for historical inflation, World War II cost the US government $4.8 trillion, but legislation passed to address the COVID-19 pandemic will cost $5.5 trillion after the bill. 
“Will this help the people get back to work? Nope. Will this help students get back in the classroom? Nope. But will it help vaccines get those who want it? Nope. But will it help take care of 92 percent of San Francisco’s budget deficit? Oh yes, it will. Yes, it will. It just throws out money without accountability, even though there are a trillion dollars sitting there right now that have already been appropriated,” McCarthy said. “The 12 terrible months the American worker has struggled through lockdowns, sacrificed through closures and suffered through mandates — they persevered through it all. And now their government wants to take $5,000 more of it to make sure the federal employee that wasn’t laid off, the state employee that wasn’t laid off gets bonuses.” But bill supporters said Democrats were elected to lead Congress and the White House, with consequences for policy. “The January 6 insurrectionists did not win. The American government, the people of the United States won with a Democratic government that has come to the rescue with the American Rescue Plan,” said Rep. Sheila Jackson Lee (D-Texas). “The long lines will stop with $20 billion for vaccines, cash-strapped Americans will get $1,400 and extended unemployment, we will recognize that our children will get back to school with $130 billion.” The bill was rammed through Congress with only Democratic votes under special budget reconciliation rules that allow for a bare majority in the Senate rather than the usual 60-vote supermajority. In a statement, Biden said, “This legislation is about giving the backbone of this nation — the essential workers, the working people who built this country, the people who keep this country going — a fighting chance.” Biden said, “I want to thank all the members who voted for it, especially Speaker Pelosi, the finest and most capable speaker in the history of our nation. Once again, she has led into law an historic piece of legislation that addresses a major crisis and lifts up millions of Americans.” Biden did not specifically thank Senate Majority Leader Chuck Schumer (D-NY), who shepherded the bill through the upper chamber. The package contains $350 billion in state and local aid and $75 billion for COVID-19 vaccination, testing and other pandemic medical supplies. It offers more than $120 billion for K-12 schools, but the Congressional Budget Office estimates that more than 90 percent won’t be spent in 2021 because funds approved for schools last year haven’t been spent. House Republican leader Kevin McCarthy slammed the bill as “socialism.”REUTERS/Kevin Lamarque The bill grants $1,400 stimulus checks to adults who earn up to $75,000 per year, with smaller amounts for earners between $75,000 and $80,000. An extra $1,400 check is awarded for each dependent child, but in a change from past stimulus checks, the income limits apply to checks for kids too. Parents also gain a new annual tax credit of $3,000 to $3,600 per child in the bill, up from $2,000 per child currently. Rep. Ro Khanna (D-Calif.) said the bill represented an “ideological revolution” for its treatment of children for tax purposes. The increased child benefit previously was pushed by Sen. Mitt Romney (R-Utah). “This bill is historic because it buries the myth that the cause of childhood poverty is a lack of character or a lack of hard work, or a lack of love. The bill affirms the simple truth that the cause of poverty is a lack of income to cover basic necessities,” Khanna said. 
“No child in America should be deprived of food, of medicine, of clothing or of education because of the accident of birth. That is what this bill stands for. It represents and marks an ideological revolution on behalf of justice.” But Republicans slammed funds for states like California, which recently reported a $10 billion budget surplus, and attacked a provision that gives up to $5 billion to pay off up to 120 percent of the outstanding loans of farmers who are racial minorities. Rep. Andrew Clyde (R-Ga.) called the benefit for non-white farmers “racist” and said he wanted the Justice Department to review whether it violates federal civil rights laws. Rep. Jodey Arrington (R-Texas) said, “Speaker Pelosi is throwing your tax dollars at Democrat cronies like a float captain throws beads at a Mardi Gras parade: bailouts for union pensions, bailouts for cash-flush states like California, bailouts for schools who still refuse to open.” The bill also establishes 15 weeks of paid leave for federal workers, including US Postal Service employees, for COVID-19-related reasons, including care of kids who don’t have school or daycare. It creates a new $25 billion grant program specifically for bars and restaurants that will compensate for lost revenue, and allows for government reimbursement of health insurance premiums for people who remain on employer policies after losing their jobs. The Senate parliamentarian also ordered that the original House-passed bill be stripped of provisions to increase the national minimum wage to $15 per hour.C-span Senate wrangling watered down some of the bill’s provisions. In a nod to more conservative Democrats, the income cap for stimulus checks was lowered to $80,000, down from $100,000 in the original House-passed version of the bill. A weekly unemployment supplement was lowered from $400 to $300. The Senate parliamentarian also ordered that the original House-passed bill be stripped of provisions to increase the national minimum wage to $15 per hour and provide $140 million to a rail project near Pelosi’s California district.   	