                  	A medical examination room at a Kaiser Permanente health clinic located in San Diego, Calif., November 17, 2014       	(Mike Blake/Reuters)                     Arkansas lawmakers on Monday passed first of its kind legislation that would prevent doctors from offering puberty blockers, cross-sex hormones or gender-transition surgery to minors.
Under the measure, any healthcare professional who offers such services would be in danger of losing their medical license and open to lawsuits from patients who later come to regret their procedures. Republican Governor Asa Hutchinson has not yet revealed whether he will sign the bill into law.
“The governor will review the bill more closely, listen to the debate, study it and make a decision on the legislation,” spokesperson Katie Beck told Reuters.
If enacted, Arkansas could become the first state in the country to restrict the procedures, though sixteen other states are considering similar bills. In Tennessee, state Representative John Ragan has sponsored a bill that would prohibit most gender transition treatment for minors unless it has the consent of three physicians.       “They’re not mature enough to make those kinds of decisions,” Ragan said.
Those who back the legislation say they aim to protect children from irreversible procedures they could later regret.
Though opponents argue the legislation is unconstitutional, goes against scientific evidence and relies on stereotypes.
“As a trans person, as a parent, I can’t stress enough how devastating the consequences would be,” said Chase Strangio, deputy director for transgender justice at the American Civil Liberties Union.
The American College of Pediatricians, which represents 600 physicians and healthcare professionals, has endorsed the legislation, saying affirming gender dysphoria in young people too early will urge them to transition.
Advocates for the bans also argue that transgender activists minimize the side effects and downplay cases of transgender people who regret their transition.
The passage of the measure comes days after the governor signed another bill on Friday which would restrict women’s sports to biologically female athletes.
Send a tip to the news team at NR.                   	Recommended          	RNC Should Take a Lesson from Mike Pence     The RNC censure resolution was morally repellent, while the former vice president took a stand for the truth.              	NBC's 'Cataclysmic' Olympics-Coverage Flop     How can anyone feel good about these Olympics?              	Nikole Hannah-Jones Responds to Our 1619 and Slavery Issue     She reacted with a lot of sneering and ad hominem argumentation and nothing of substance.              	Joe Biden Doesn’t Know What You’re Talking About     To watch Biden at the lectern was to experience shock and dismay interspersed with moments of alarm and dark humor. No wonder he hides from the media.              	Why Were Authorities So Evasive About the Synagogue Gunman's Motive?     Why were President Biden and the FBI so reluctant to say that the synagogue gunman was motivated by antisemitism and jihadism?              	The Afghanistan Debacle Looks Worse and Worse     The more we learn about the administration’s withdrawal, the more it becomes clear that its decisions were driven by political considerations and panic.       	The Latest          	Maskless Super Bowl Marks Our Return to Normalcy     This collective moment was a warning to the Covid regime that its strictures won’t stand much longer.              	Russian Figure-Skating Prodigy Will Compete at Olympics Despite Failed Drug Test     The IOC has decided it will not hold a medal ceremony for any event in which Valieva places in the top three while the matter remains under investigation.                      The IRS Wants Your Picture     The agency’s plans for facial recognition might be abandoned for now, but its lust for data is never satiated.              	Why America’s Government-Debt Problem Endures     Any meaningful change requires enough Americans deciding that they really do want less government in their lives, and then acting accordingly.              	‘Blame America first,’ &c.     On Jeane Kirkpatrick, today’s Russia debate, Edward Snowden, Ukraine’s right to exist, and more.        