           The Islamic State (ISIS) attacks in Paris have nearly all Americans worried about a terrorist strike in the United States – and a majority convinced we're at war with radical Islam, according to a new poll.
The Washington Post-ABC News survey, finds a stunning 83 percent of registered voters believe a terrorist attack in the United States resulting in large casualties is likely in the near future – a rise of 10 percentage points from a Quinnipiac University poll taken between Oct. 29 and Nov. 2 asking the same question.
A full 40 percent say a major attack is "very likely," matching the level of concern after the 2005 subway bombings in Britain, according to the Washington Post.
The survey also shows 59 percent think "the United States is at war with radical Islam."
But Americans are deeply disapproving of President Barack Obama's approach to the problem, either, the poll finds.
Asked about Obama's handling of the threat of terrors, 40 percent approve, 54 percent disapprove. Asked about his handling of ISIS, a mere 35 percent approved, and a whopping 57 percent disapproved.
"I just think he's just politically correct, doesn't want to ruffle feathers and is not a strong leader," Ken Kaas, a heavy-equipment operator in Pottstown, Pa., tells the Post, describing the president's approach as "horrible."
He said many GOP presidential candidates are "stronger, and they seem to be more caring of Americans and our cause, as opposed to trying to appease the world."
Charles Moore, a retired Weyerhaeuser employee in Pinetown, N.C., who voted twice for Obama, tells the Post he doesn't like that Obama is so dismissive of ordinary Americans' concerns about the refugees.
"I don't like what he said about, 'You're scared of little children, of 3-year-olds.' In Vietnam, little children were killing people, little children were blowing people up," he tells the Post. "With all this stuff going on, it's got to really be looked into before we make decisions about letting in refugees. Because we could be hiding our own enemy."
He's not alone in that sentiment, the poll finds; 54 percent say the United States shouldn't take in refugees from Syria and other parts of the Middle East – even if they're screened.
In other findings, the survey shows:   73 percent think the United States should take part in a military response to the Paris attacks, with 73 in support of increased air strikes – and a majority 60 percent backing the use of U.S. ground forces.   72 percent say the federal government should investigate possible terrorist threats even if they intrude on personal privacy. Overall results have a margin of error of plus or minus 3.5 percentage points.           © 2022 Newsmax. All rights reserved.         