
Editor's note: A previous version of this story stated President Obama will appoint Merrick Garland to the Supreme Court. That is incorrect. President Obama will nominate Garland for the position. UPDATE: Obama has officially submitted Garland's nomination. "Today, I am nominating Chief Judge Merrick Brian Garland to join the Supreme Court." —@POTUS #SCOTUSnominee pic.twitter.com/ak7vqV9sCM— The White House (@WhiteHouse) March 16, 2016
"I said I would take this process seriously.And I did.I chose a serious man & an exemplary judge—Merrick Garland" —@POTUS #SCOTUSnominee— The White House (@WhiteHouse) March 16, 2016
"We should...treat the process of appointing a Supreme Court justice with the seriousness and care it deserves." —@POTUS #SCOTUSnominee— The White House (@WhiteHouse) March 16, 2016
"Our Supreme Court is unique.It is supposed to be above politics.And it should stay that way."—@POTUS #SCOTUSnominee— The White House (@WhiteHouse) March 16, 2016
"I have fulfilled my constitutional duty.Now it’s time for the Senate to do theirs." —@POTUS #SCOTUSnominee— The White House (@WhiteHouse) March 16, 2016
According to a report in POLITICO, President Obama will nominate Merrick Garland to the Supreme Court as a replacement for late Justice Antonin Scalia, who died last month. Obama will make the announcement from the Rose Garden at 11 a.m. eastern. Merrick Garland was on short list for SCOTUS twice before. Highly-regarded judge and prosecutor, who's won bipartisan plaudits.— David Axelrod (@davidaxelrod) March 16, 2016
In an email announcement sent by the White House earlier today, Obama said without naming Garland that his nominee possesses "an independent mind, unimpeachable credentials and an unquestionable mastery of law." Before landing on Garland, at least six potentially nominees for the position asked President Obama to take their names out of consideration as Senate Republicans firmly stand their ground against holding confirmation hearings. "We intend to exercise the constitutional power granted the Senate under Article II, Section 2 to ensure the American people are not deprived of the opportunity to engage in a full and robust debate over the type of jurist they wish to decide some of the most critical issues of our time. Not since 1932 has the Senate confirmed in a presidential election year a Supreme Court nominee to a vacancy arising in that year. And it is necessary to go even further back — to 1888 — in order to find an election year nominee who was nominated and confirmed under divided government, as we have now," Senate Judiciary Committee Republicans wrote in a letter to Majority Leader Mitch McConnell in February. "Accordingly, given the particular circumstances under which this vacancy arises, we wish to inform you of our intention to exercise our constitutional authority to withhold consent on any nominee to the Supreme Court submitted by this President to fill Justice Scalia’s vacancy. Because our decision is based on constitutional principle and born of a necessity to protect the will of the American people, this Committee will not hold hearings on any Supreme Court nominee until after our next President is sworn in on January 20, 2017." According to Judge Andrew Napolitano, Garland is the most conservative Supreme Court ever nominated by a Democrat president.UPDATE: Republicans have voted for Garland in the past. 7 current GOP Senators voted to put Merrick Garland on DC Circuit back in 1997 pic.twitter.com/z4Ov0WSR0y— Jamie Dupree (@jamiedupree) March 16, 2016
This post has been updated with additional information. 