       This column was intended to be a catalog of some of the latest WikiLeaks disclosures which show how thoroughly the political party currently in control of the White House (and likely to continue that control) has descended into a Third World level of corruption.
And that catalog is on the way. But over the weekend, something which even more clearly shows the criminal nature of the Democratic Party and Hillary Clinton’s coterie of hacks and goons surfaced, and it urgently demands examination.
According to documents made public by the FBI as part of interview summaries surrounding the Clinton emails case, there was an attempt at a deal between Patrick Kennedy, one of Hillary’s kept men at the State Department, and the Bureau whereby classified emails on her unsecured bathroom server would have their status altered in her favor in exchange for more favorable treatment of FBI officials in overseas postings at embassies.
The Weekly Standard’s Stephen Hayes broke the story Friday night. Hayes’ account describes the negotiations…
A senior FBI official in the international operations division describes conversations with Kennedy about the classification of emails. In his interview, this official says his section of the FBI had attempted to contact Kennedy repeatedly over the course of several months in the spring of 2015. Kennedy did not return the calls. In the late spring or early summer of 2015, the FBI official reported to work surprised to find a note indicating that Kennedy had called.
According to the summary, Kennedy wanted help. The FBI official spoke with Kennedy and Kennedy raised the possibility of keeping at least one Clinton email from public disclosure by obtaining a “B9” exemption under the Freedom of Information Act, a rarely used exemption that refers to “geological and geophysical information and data.” One email in particular concerned Kennedy and, according to the FBI summary, providing a B9 exemption “would allow him to archive the document in the basement of the department of state never to be seen again.” The FBI official told Kennedy that he would look into the email if Kennedy would authorize a pending request for additional FBI personnel in Iraq.
A summary of an interview with the section chief of the FBI records management division provides further evidence of Kennedy’s attempts to have the classification of some sensitive emails changed. The FBI records official, whose job includes making determinations on classification, told investigators that he was approached by his colleague in international operations after the initial discussion with Kennedy. The FBI records official says that his colleague “pressured” him to declassify an email “in exchange for a quid pro quo,” according to the interview summary. “In exchange for making the email unclassified State would reciprocate by allowing the FBI to place more agents in countries where they are presently forbidden.” The request was denied.
The FBI has “explained” these events by saying that the bargained-for exchange never took place and the FBI agent with whom Kennedy was communicating has since retired. Move along, nothing to see here. State Department spokesman Mark Toner made the absurd claim that these conversations were a “normal part of the classification process” — as though it’s “normal” to reclassify documents that are part of an investigation into criminal misuse of state secrets in favor of the governing party’s presidential nominee.
If that’s “normal,” it’s even worse than we thought.
This isn’t acceptable, to be charitable. This communication took place amid Hillary’s denials that any classified material was sent or received on her email, which her former employees still working at State — including Kennedy — knew to be a lie. And rather than give the public the truth, which wouldn’t come out until much later, after she had won the Democrat nomination, Kennedy was working to remedy her false denials by making a lie true.
And further, he was offering essentially a bribe to the FBI in order to procure more favorable field on which the Clinton email investigation would play out.
This isn’t some ho-hum bureaucratic deal-making at work — or if it is, it illuminates precisely how like the Third World the corruption in Washington has become.
Consider what would happen if the middle manager or legal counsel at XYZ Corporation, whose CEO is under FBI investigation, were to offer perks and valuables to FBI agents individually or collectively as a quid pro quo for a reframing of the investigation. We all know how that would go — the charges would pile up, the offender in question would be quickly dismissed, the corporation would be dragged through the mud, and the CEO would be accused of directing the attempted bribe. In this case there is no evidence Hillary Clinton was behind Kennedy’s offers — but we also don’t know how hard investigators have looked. After all, this horse-trading didn’t happen when Hillary was wrapping up her affairs at State in 2012; it happened last year when the FBI investigation was ramping up. One assumes Kennedy understood the stakes at hand, and one assumes he’s smart enough to know how best to butter his own bread as a Clintonite.
And given Kennedy’s role as the Clintons’ fixer at State, you would expect that he would be the primary individual put to the squeeze in any investigation of the email scandal. Kennedy, after all, was involved in the questionable political hiring of Clinton IT tech Bryan Pagliano to a nonpolitical State Department job; Pagliano was the man who set up Hillary’s private server and ended up getting immunity in the investigation.
But yes — Toner and the rest of the Democrat stooges disguised as federal bureaucrats are correct. For those of us rubes in the hinterlands this might seem a flagrant example of an out-of-control government, but for our betters inside the Beltway it’s a Tuesday.
And they wonder why we increasingly recoil from consent to be governed by them.       