             President-elect Donald Trump has chosen Republican National Committee chairman Reince Priebus his new chief of staff.
He also named conservative media executive Stephen K. Bannon as his senior counselor.
"I am thrilled to have my very successful team continue with me in leading our country," Trump said in a statement.
Trump's transition team made the announcement, Sunday, in the first steps toward solidifying the President-elect's administration.
Priebus, is a Washington veteran with deep ties to Republican leadership, particularly House Speaker Paul Ryan, The Associated Press reports.
"It is truly an honor to join President-elect Trump in the White House as his Chief of Staff," Priebus said in the statement. "I am very grateful to the President-elect for this opportunity to serve him and this nation as we work to create an economy that works for everyone, secure our borders, repeal and replace Obamacare and destroy radical Islamic terrorism. He will be a great President for all Americans."
Bannon is believed to have been in the running for the position, but will now serve as chief strategist and senior counselor. He ran the conservative website Breitbart News before joining the presidential campaign during the general election.
"Steve and Reince are highly qualified leaders who worked well together on our campaign and led us to a historic victory. Now I will have them both with me in the White House as we work to make America great again," Trump said.
The campaign's statement described Bannon and Priebus as "equal partners.”
"Bannon and Priebus will continue the effective leadership team they formed during the campaign, working as equal partners to transform the federal government, making it much more efficient, effective and productive," it said.
According to CNN, Trump's picks signal that he will look to build bridges in Washington and keep continuity with the Republican party's agenda.
"We will have that same partnership in working to help President-elect Trump achieve his agenda," Bannon said.                          