                  	A police officer walks in front of the United States Supreme Court Building in Washington, D.C., May 13, 2021.      (Andrew Kelly/Reuters)                     The Supreme Court on Monday declined to take up a case over a Virginia school board’s policy on transgender bathroom use, leaving in place a lower court’s ruling that the school unconstitutionally discriminated against a biologically female student who was denied access to the boy’s bathroom.
The justices chose not to hear the Gloucester County School Board’s appeal of a 2020 ruling by the 4th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals that said transgender student Gavin Grimm is protected under Title IX, the federal law that bars sex discrimination in education, as well as the U.S. Constitution’s requirement that people be treated equally under the law. The 4th Circuit ruling does not set a national legal precedent.
The Court’s decision marks a victory for Grimm, who first sued the school board in 2015 after being prohibited from using the boys’ restrooms. In 2016, the high court took up the case but ultimately did not issue a ruling and sent it back to lower courts.
“We won,” Grimm wrote in a tweet on Monday. “I have nothing more to say but thank you, thank you, thank you. Honored to have been part of this victory.”
Lawyers for the school district had argued that the privacy rights of millions of students would be at risk if transgender students were allowed to use bathrooms matching their gender identities.       “For school officials, as for parents, the question how best to respond to a teenager who identifies with the opposite biological sex is often excruciatingly difficult,” lawyers for the school district told the Supreme Court.
The court order said that Justices Clarence Thomas and Samuel Alito would have taken up the case.
The Supreme Court ruled last year that the meaning of discrimination “on the basis of sex” in the workplace encompassed “gender identity,” though it did not expand the definition of sex to include gender identity. It said that to discriminate against someone for their “gender identity” necessarily entails discrimination on the basis of sex.
Judge Henry Floyd wrote on behalf of the 4th Circuit that the Supreme Court’s 2020 ruling helped guide the decision in the Grimm case.
Floyd wrote that in light of the 2020 ruling, “we have little difficulty in holding that a bathroom policy precluding Grimm from using the boys restrooms discriminated against him.” Earlier this month, the Education Department announced that it would expand the definition of the federal civil-rights statute banning sex discrimination in federally funded education programs to include gender identity amid a national debate over whether biological males should be allowed to compete in girls’ sports.
The Biden administration said it would interpret the Supreme Court’s 2020 ruling to apply to discrimination against gender identity in schools.
The administration’s ruling could expose schools that seek to preserve sex-segregated spaces to litigation and could lead to challenges against Republican-led efforts to preserve female only sports, though Education Secretary Miguel Cardona was vague about how aggressive the Department of Justice would be in pursuing such cases.
“The reality is each case has to be investigated individually,” Cardona said, adding that schools should “not wait for complaints to come to address these issues.”
Send a tip to the news team at NR.                   	Recommended          	NBC's 'Cataclysmic' Olympics-Coverage Flop     How can anyone feel good about these Olympics?              	Joe Biden Doesn’t Know What You’re Talking About     To watch Biden at the lectern was to experience shock and dismay interspersed with moments of alarm and dark humor. No wonder he hides from the media.              	Nikole Hannah-Jones Responds to Our 1619 and Slavery Issue     She reacted with a lot of sneering and ad hominem argumentation and nothing of substance.              	Maskless Super Bowl Marks Our Return to Normalcy     This collective moment was a warning to the Covid regime that its strictures won’t stand much longer.              	The Perfect Storm Is Coming     Not learning from the stagflationary past may lead to a stagflationary future.              	The Afghanistan Debacle Looks Worse and Worse     The more we learn about the administration’s withdrawal, the more it becomes clear that its decisions were driven by political considerations and panic.       	The Latest          	Nikki Haley Blasts American-Born Skier Competing for China at Beijing Olympics     'Every athlete needs to know when they put their flag on, you're standing for freedom or you're standing for human rights abuses,' said Haley.              	San Francisco Voters Overwhelmingly Back Recall of Progressive School-Board Members     More than 70 percent of voters supported the ouster of school board members Alison Collins, Gabriela López, and Faauuga Moliga.               How Georgetown Is Stifling Speech on Campus     The university is implementing the academic analog of a SLAPP suit against Ilya Shapiro.              	McKinsey Website Contradicts Denials of Chinese-Government Work; Rubio Claims ‘Cover-Up’     The consultancy once said it did work for China’s central government, undercutting recent statements.               	Imagine a Trumpdeau. You Can’t     If Trump had gone after the 2020 rioters the way Trudeau is targeting truckers, the institutions and the permanent government wouldn’t have complied.              	Building Back Stagflation     Our elected leaders must accept that inflation is a monster of their own making, and stop fanning the flames with ever-higher levels of government spending.        