President Donald Trump talks with West Virginia Gov. Jim Justice during a rally Thursday, Aug. 3, 2017, in Huntington, W.Va. Justice, a Democrat, announced that he is switching parties to join the Republicans. (AP Photo/Darron Cummings)If the Democrats and Republicans were engaged in a real war – what they're all doing now is just political combat of the messiest kind – West Virginia Gov. Jim Justice's defection to the GOP after just a few months in office might be a signal it's time to sue for peace. "Today, I will tell you, with lots of prayers and lots of thinking, I can't help you anymore being a Democrat governor," Justice said last week at a rally with President Donald Trump in Huntington. "So tomorrow, I will be changing my registration to Republican."Say what you want, governors don't change parties every day. The last to do it was Lincoln Chaffee, the governor of Rhode Island, who had been elected as an independent but joined the Democrats midway through his single term in office as a prelude to an all-too-brief flirtation with his new party's 2016 presidential nomination. Before that is was Buddy Roemer who, as governor of Louisiana, joined the GOP back when George Herbert Walker Bush was president. Justice's decision to join in the GOP while chief executive of a state the Democrats as recently as 10 years ago owned from top to bottom is a huge, Las Vegas strip-style neon sign telling the Democrats they're in more trouble than they know. Editorial Cartoons on Democrats in the Trump EraWith Justice, the number of Republican governors is up to 34, the highest in history. The number of states where the GOP has control of the governorship and the state legislature is up to 26, including Nebraska where the legislature, while unicameral and officially non-partisan, is dominated by registered Republicans. By comparison there are just six states – California, Oregon, Rhode Island, Delaware, Hawaii and Connecticut – where the Democrats are in charge (and the clock is running on a few of those).There are lots of reasons the partisan division has become so lopsided in favor of the GOP. The Democrats and their friends in the government departments of elite universities and on the editorial desk at the New York Times will say it's because the legislative district maps are drawn unfairly, because the votes of non-whites are suppressed in the South and in rural areas, and just about any other excuse they can think of to suggest the Republicans are cheating. In truth, the voters just aren't buying any more what the Democrats have to sell.Consider New York City, where Mayor Bill DeBlasio has just proposed adding a surtax on the wealthiest residents in his city to pay for the reconstruction of the subway system before it collapses into complete chaos. For folks who ride the subway and don't pay any income taxes, that probably sounds like a dandy idea. Those who can afford to live in the city and make enough so they don't have to take the subway are likely to react differently, up to and including a change in their legal residence to Florida or Tennessee or one of the other states without an income tax. Rather than raising money by soaking the rich to pay for pork his voters will like, DeBlasio is actually accelerating the erosion of the city's shrinking tax base, creating the possibility that even more so-called essential services will be underfunded to the point they're close to failing. The Democrats, from FDR to Bill Clinton, were the party of the working man. They are that no longer, despite what their new "Better Deal" plan may say. They're undergoing an intergenerational change as the aggrieved and the aggravated take over. The power within the party now rests with the Wall Street crowd who cheerfully export jobs overseas, the millennials who whine about an inability to pay back student loans no one forced them to borrow, women who look at child-bearing principally as a bad career move, and people who are being asked to surrender their freedom of choice and their vote in exchange for a promise to be taken care of from the cradle to the grave.That may sound appealing to some. To many of us, enough that it matters, that's not America so much as it is a dystopian nightmare. If the Democrats are buoyant about anything it's the sense they're beating Trump. Maybe. They've certainly been able to hold up his appointments, slow his agenda, and are giving him fits over the Russia business. Some of that stuff has a bunch of Republicans hanging back too (see Flake, Jeff. U.S. Senator, Arizona) so that if he goes under they still have a chance to remain afloat. Hardly a profile in political courage, but that's for another day and another column. The point is the GOP is, for the moment at least, the nation's majority party. The split-ticket voting common to elections in the period from Reagan to George W. Bush has dropped in favor of a rise in straight party voting. For the Democrats, West Virginia is gone – and with it went the kinds of voters it represents, who were once the party's most faithful. The realignment GOP strategists have anticipated since 1980 is at hand. All the Republicans have to do to become the permanent majority is to deliver on what they promised, continue to grow their vote, and prove the disparate wings of the party – the economic conservatives, the social conservatives, the Trump voters, the Reagan Democrats and those who join the party because they are born into it because … Lincoln – can work together to get things done. 