Texas Attorney General: Church Shooting Is 'Going to Happen Again'
Pastor's 14-Year-Old Daughter Killed in Texas Church Shooting
Counselor to President Donald Trump Kellyanne Conway criticized some on the left for immediately politicizing the deadly church shooting in Texas.
At least 26 people were killed and approximately 20 more were wounded after a gunman opened fire at the First Baptist Church in Sutherland Springs on Sunday.
In the wake of the attack, many Democrat lawmakers and Hollywood celebrities called for gun control.
Thoughts & prayers are not enough, GOP. We must end this violence. We must stop these tragedies. People are dying while you wait.
— Elizabeth Warren (@SenWarren) November 5, 2017
Senseless gun violence has torn apart another community — this time in a house of worship. When do we say enough is enough? https://t.co/gsW1KN54xc
— Kamala Harris (@KamalaHarris) November 5, 2017
Sickened by yet another mass shooting leaving people dead & injured. Enough! Congress must muster the courage to help prevent gun violence.
— Mike Thompson (@RepThompson) November 5, 2017
Enough is enough. Now is the time for commonsense gun violence prevention steps. Congressional complicity must end.
— Richard Blumenthal (@SenBlumenthal) November 5, 2017
The shooter turned his gun on people -- kids -- in a place of worship. America is in the grips of a gun violence crisis. Congress must act. https://t.co/CIJX3jM3Tq
— Senator Dick Durbin (@SenatorDurbin) November 5, 2017
CONGRESS- the Horror of #SutherlandSprings is on YOU. BAN #gunstocks NOW. Las Vegas was basically Yesterday! Shameful, complicit,no excuses.
— Debra Messing (@DebraMessing) November 5, 2017
Mass carnage in Sutherland Springs.
We can do better than this.
The idea of zero new gun safety laws isn’t just idiotic it’s murderous.
— Adam McKay (@GhostPanther) November 5, 2017
Where's the next mass shooting gonna be? Any guesses? Should we try to do anything we can to prevent it? No? Ok cool. Good luck out there!
— billy eichner (@billyeichner) November 5, 2017
Chelsea Handler even went so far as to blame Republicans for the mass shooting.
Innocent people go to church on Sunday to honor their God, and while doing so, get shot in killed. What country? America. Why? Republicans.
— Chelsea Handler (@chelseahandler) November 5, 2017
Conway said that playing politics in the immediate aftermath of a tragedy is "so beyond any type of reasonable response."
"It's just like I said in Las Vegas over a month ago. You had families literally still looking for their loved ones through the rubble and remains in Las Vegas, running from hospital to hospital. There were people who were injured who went on to pass away, and yet people ... pointing fingers," Conway said.
She said the rush to judgment doesn't help the victims, and it's disrespectful to the dead.
Watch more above.
Dem and GOP Politicians React to Texas Church Shooting
Texas Shooting Witness: We Have to Overcome Evil With Good
Chelsea Handler Blames Republicans for Texas Massacre
