House Speaker Paul Ryan had a tough time on the “Today Show” Wednesday when host Savannah Guthrie asked if he was “living in a fantasy world.”Guthrie quoted businessman and Democratic mega-donor Michael Bloomberg to ask Ryan whether believing corporate tax cuts will lead to growth was ridiculous, before interrupting him multiple times. “Let me quote Michael Bloomberg, no enemy of business,” Guthrie said. “He said, ‘CEOs aren’t waiting on a tax cut to jump-start the economy, a favorite phrase of politicians who have never run a company… It’s pure fantasy to think that the tax bill will lead to higher wages and growth.'” Bloomberg made those comments in an op-ed where he called the GOP tax plan a “trillion dollar blunder,” and said businesses don’t need more money but have record cash reserves. “I’ll ask you plainly, are you living in a fantasy world?” Guthrie asked Ryan. Once Ryan started answering the question, Guthrie jumped in. “I would compare that anecdote to surveys of the businesses, the national business manufacturers that show the majority of businesses will do what we say, reinvest in the workers, reinvest in the factories, pay people more money, higher wages,” Ryan said, and Guthrie interrupted saying, “let me pin you down on that.” Ryan continued a moment, saying, “workers benefit on this through higher wages. It’s not a question of if it will happen, it’s a question of when.” Guthrie then interrupted Ryan several times to “drill down” on whether corporate leaders were planning to reinvest profits into growing businesses. The House and the Senate passed a landmark tax cuts and reform bill Tuesday, getting the legislation closer to President Donald Trump’s desk. ALSO WATCH: Follow Thomas Phippen on Twitter Send tips to thomas@dailycallernewsfoundation.org. The Daily Caller News Foundation is working hard to balance out the biased American media. For as little as $3, you can help us. Freedom of speech isn’t free. Make a one-time donation to support the quality, independent journalism of TheDCNF. We’re not dependent on commercial or political support and we do not accept any government funding.  Content created by The Daily Caller News Foundation is available without charge to any eligible news publisher that can provide a large audience. For licensing opportunities of our original content, please contact licensing@dailycallernewsfoundation.org. 