      	Even the Good Book couldn’t save him.
Clutching a red Bible on his way into court, President Trump’s longtime confidant Roger Stone was convicted Friday of lying to lawmakers investigating Russian interference in the 2016 presidential election.
The outspoken Republican operative, 67, was indicted in January as part of special counsel Robert Mueller’s probe into whether Russia colluded with the Trump campaign.
He was found guilty in Washington, DC, federal court on all seven counts against him — one count of obstruction of an official proceeding, five counts of making false statements and one count of witness tampering.
Stone faces up to 20 years in prison at his sentencing Feb. 6, but his sentence will likely be much lighter.
The Richard Nixon-obsessed, self-described “dirty trickster” was accused of lying to the House Intelligence Committee about his communications with WikiLeaks, as well as encouraging another witness to lie to the FBI.
Jurors began deliberating Thursday after about a week of testimony, including from Trump 2016 campaign chief executive Steve Bannon, who said Stone boasted about his ties to WikiLeaks and its founder, Julian Assange, and alerted the campaign to pending batches of damaging Democratic emails.
Former Trump campaign deputy chairman Rick Gates also took the witness stand, telling jurors that he had overheard a phone conversation in late July 2016 between Trump and Stone that appeared to be about WikiLeaks — because after the call ended, Trump said that more information would be coming out soon.
Immediately after the verdict was handed down, Trump blasted his longtime friend’s conviction as a “double standard.”
Roger Stone arrives at a DC courthouse on Nov. 15.EPA
“So they now convict Roger Stone of lying and want to jail him for many years to come. Well, what about Crooked Hillary, Comey, Strzok, Page, McCabe, Brennan, Clapper, Shifty Schiff, Ohr & Nellie, Steele & all of the others, including even Mueller himself? Didn’t they lie,” Trump tweeted.
“A double standard like never seen before in the history of our Country?” he wrote, referring to former FBI officials Peter Strzok and Lisa Page, among others.
Federal prosecutors said Stone lied in his September 2017 testimony to Congress to protect the Trump campaign from embarrassment.
“Roger Stone knew if this information came out, it would look really bad for his longtime associate Donald Trump, so he lied to the committee,” prosecutor Jonathan Kravis told the jury during closing arguments. “Ladies and gentlemen, Roger Stone is a political strategist. He knows how this is going to look.”
Stone’s lawyer, Bruce Rogow, said he did nothing deliberately illegal and attacked the government’s case as weak and built on unreliable witnesses, saying the allegations defied “common sense” because Trump had already been elected president by the time Stone testified to the House Intelligence Committee.
“Why would he make stuff up? Why would he volunteer to testify? Why would Stone produce documents?” Rogow asked during his own summations.
Stone, who did not testify, has been out on bail since his arrest. He is the sixth Trump adviser or aide to be convicted of charges brought as part of Mueller’s investigation, including Gates, the president’s personal lawyer Michael Cohen, his former campaign chairman Paul Manafort and former national security adviser Michael Flynn.
Stone said nothing as he emerged from the courthouse and slipped on his trademark, round-framed sunglasses. He is barred from speaking publicly about his case as per a gag order issued after he posted a photo of Judge Amy Berman Jackson with crosshairs next to her head.
With Post wires
Roger Stone arrives at a DC courthouse on Nov. 15.Reuters   	