                 	Erik Prince       AP                       Special counsel Robert Mueller has acquired the communications of Trump ally and Blackwater founder Erik Prince, who acknowledged that he “cooperated” in the Russian probe, according to a report.
“As Mr. Prince told the Daily Beast he has spoken voluntarily with Congress and also cooperated completely with the special counsel’s investigation, including by providing them total access to his phones and computer,” a Prince spokesman told ABC News.
“Mr. Prince has a lot of opinions about the various investigations, but there is no question that they are important and serious, and so Mr. Prince will keep his opinions to himself for now and to let the investigators do their work,” the rep said.
“All we will add is that much of the reporting and speculation about Mr. Prince in the media is inaccurate, and we are confident that when the investigators have finished their work, we will be able to put these distractions to the side.”
In March, Mueller’s probe reportedly uncovered evidence that a secret meeting in Seychelles shortly before President Trump’s inauguration was intended to create a back channel between the incoming administration and the Kremlin.
The January 2017 meeting between Prince and a Russian official close to strongman Vladimir Putin was coordinated so that Prince could discuss how the Trump administration could communicate with Moscow, according to a Washington Post report.
The founder of America’s most famous private military contractor has told Congress that the meeting with Kirill Dmitriev, the Putin-appointed head of Russia’s sovereign wealth fund, was a chance encounter “over a beer.”
But ABC News reported earlier this year that Mueller had obtained evidence that created doubt about that testimony.
Investigators believe the meeting was intended to establish a line of communication between the countries that was outside normal diplomatic channels.
The information came to light after it was revealed that Lebanese-American businessman George Nader, a representative of the United Arab Emirates who was part of the Seychelles meeting, was cooperating with Mueller’s probe under immunity.
It was unclear whether Mueller’s office would prosecute Prince or even make a referral to the US attorney for the District of Columbia if they found convincing evidence of perjury, according to ABC News.
Rep. Eric Swalwell (D-Calif.), a member of the House Intelligence Committee, welcomed the renewed focus on Prince.
“I have a lot of questions about whether he was being straight with us,” Swalwell told ABC News. “I’m heartened to hear that the special counsel is doing what Republicans on the committee were not willing to do … and follow up and not take Mr. Prince at his word.”                                             