   Hunter Biden, the much-discussed son of Democratic frontrunner and former Vice President Joe Biden, is the father of a baby born in Arkansas in August of 2018, according to court filings. For months, Biden denied that he fathered the child; however, the mother has stated that Hunter “verbally admitted” to her in private that he was the father of the child.
The motion, filed earlier today in Independence County Circuit Court, declares with “scientific certainty” that Hunter, 49, is the father of a child born to 28-year-old Lunden Alexis Roberts. According to local reports, public records indicate that a woman by that name lives in Batesville, Arkansas.
According to The Washington Examiner:
Roberts attended college at Western Illinois University, playing for the college’s basketball team before transferring to Arkansas State University, where she graduated in 2014 with a degree in interdisciplinary studies.
She was living in Washington, D.C., and Virginia from 2015 to 2018, according to pubic records, which would have been the time when the child was conceived.
According to the motion, it is not anticipated that Hunter will challenge the results of the paternity test, which was conducted less than two weeks ago in Oklahoma City (per a separate filing). The court document also indicates that the unnamed child, named “Baby Doe” in the filings, may be eligible for secret service protection, given the child is the biological grandchild of a major political figure.
Back in May, the baby’s mother filed for paternity and child support for Baby Doe, alleging that at one point Hunter and Roberts were in a relationship. It is believed that Hunter was dating his brother Beau’s widow, Hallie Biden, when Roberts gave birth to Baby Doe last year, given Hunter and Hallie began dating in 2017 after his divorce from Kathleen Biden and did not break up until April of 2019.
To further complicate matters, Hunter Biden then married his now-wife Melissa Cohen in May of 2019. Biden has three daughters with his former wife Kathleen.
Given Hunter’s public denials of having fathered the child, these latest revelations do little to help the controversial figure’s credibility.     Erielle is a Senior Policy Analyst at the Jewish Institute for National Security of America (JINSA).      20/20ArkansasBodnariu familychild supportDNAHunter BidenJoe Bidenpaternity      