       President Trump exudes complete confidence that his threat to charge tariffs of 20 percent or more on automotive imports will pay off handsomely for the American economy generally, and carmakers in particular.       But the industry and its suppliers have nothing but doubt and communities where their plants are located, many of which supported the president's 2016 campaign, share those fears.       The industry has sent dozens of submissions to the Commerce Department to air concerns, which is part of the investigation required by law before the duties can be imposed.       The proposed automotive tariffs, threatened on national security grounds through Section 232 of the Trade Expansion Act of 1962, "will harm a thriving sector of both Alabama's economy and the nation's as a whole," said William J. Canary, president of the Alabama Business Council, which represents employers in a state where Trump captured 62 percent of the vote.       Carmakers from General Motors, the American icon behind the Chevrolet Camaro and the Cadillac Escalade, to foreign manufacturers like BMW, Honda and Volvo that build autos in the U.S. warn that the duties will push up their supply costs, curb American exports and, ultimately, cost well-paying jobs that the president has promised to increase.       "Import tariffs could lead to a smaller GM, a reduced presence at home and abroad," and risk less — not more — manufacturing positions, said the Detroit-based carmaker, which has a U.S. payroll of 110,000. The potential risk from the duties grows , the company said, when combined with Trump's widening trade disputes with China as well as with traditional U.S. partners like Europe, Canada and Mexico.       The White House has demurred, with Trump saying "people who happen to be smart" have no uncertainty about the positive effects of his stance.       "We're very close to making some very good trade deals, fair trade deals," the president said last week in a meeting with Netherlands Prime Minister Mark Rutte, arguing that Europe was eager to negotiate. "We're just thinking about those cars that pour in here."       Should the threats and counter-threats instead spur an all-out trade war; however, economists say the benefits of last year's GOP-led tax cuts may be lost and the world might topple into recession.       Across the U.S. auto industry, a 25 percent tariff would trim output by 1.5 percent and cost 195,000 U.S. workers their jobs over a period of one to three years, according to figures cited by the Auto Alliance, a trade group for companies behind 70 percent of U.S. auto sales. Buyers of imported cars would pay an average of $5,800 more, costing American consumers about $45 billion, based on 2017 sales data.       "If imports of automobiles and auto parts are subjected to tariff increases or other restrictions or adjustments, U.S. consumers and the American economy as a whole will pay a heavy price," noted Katherine Yehl, vice president of government affairs in the Americas for Volvo, which recently opened its first U.S. manufacturing plant.       The $1.1 billion project by the Gothenburg, Sweden-based company was the first brand new automobile factory in the U.S. in almost a decade, Volvo said. Spanning 2.3 million square feet and capable of building up to 150,000 cars a year, the plant will begin commercial production in August and employ about 1,500 workers by the end of 2018, the company said.       Volvo, which expects to expand that workforce to 4,000 over the long term, pointed out that its ability to do so depends on using a global production system that enables shipment of parts and finished vehicles without “burdensome” tariffs.       “The U.S. benefits from open markets, and half of what we build in South Carolina will be exported,” Yehl wrote. “Thus, half of the 4,000 direct jobs at the factory that we aim to create are related to exports and if we cannot trade freely, those U.S. jobs may not be created at all."       BMW, like many of the automakers and trade groups weighing in on the proposed tariffs, noted that car production has no “apparent correlation” with U.S. national security.       “It appears that the purpose of threatening to impose these duties is to achieve certain economic objectives, under the theory that enhancing U.S. economic competitiveness will enhance U.S. national security,” Lisa Errion Saums, BMW Group’s vice president for government and external affairs for the Americas, wrote to Ross. “The problem with this line of reasoning is that imposing duties is not conducive to increasing U.S. growth and enhancing competitiveness.”       Further, she said, BMW isn't a national-security risk. The company has worked with the U.S. on a variety of security-related matters, including supplying electric vehicles to the Los Angeles Police Department and developing a workshop and training program for military technicians at Camp Pendleton, the Marine Corps base in southern California.       As for the Trump administration’s goal of reducing European Union tariffs, she said, BMW has long supported removing it. The company pays duties on more than 100,000 cars produced at its South Carolina plant and shipped to Europe each year.       “Removing both U.S. and EU automotive duties entirely is in the best interest of German auto manufacturers, as it would save them an estimated 1 billion euros a year,” she wrote.       “We expect that if the U.S. sets its sights on removing that barrier to trade, it might very well be able to negotiate for such an outcome in a free trade agreement for industrial goods without having to threaten such significant harm to the global automotive industry,” Saums added.       The effects of the tariffs would stretch far beyond the auto industry itself, however. The sector represents a large market for U.S. chemical companies, which would also be hurt, according to the American Chemistry Council, a trade group. One-fifth of an automobile's weight comes from chemicals, including plastics, coatings and fluids, worth a combined $3,013.       "We don't think imports of automobiles and auto parts are a threat to national security," said Ed Brzytwa, the group's director of international trade and a former policy adviser to the U.S. Trade Representative on Asia Pacific issues. If the administration is simply using that as a tactic to level the economic playing field, it's not likely to work, he added.       "Creating barriers to trade is not going to address barriers to trade; as a former negotiator, I can tell you that that is just shooting yourself in the foot," Brzytwa said. "The best way to resolve these issues is through negotiation, not through blackmail or extortion or trying to change the global supply-chain world in which we live."       The potential damage from Trump's tariffs isn't limited to global corporations; carmakers and business leaders warn that it will be evident at very local levels, too.       The proposed duties could “greatly harm Alabama’s auto-manufacturing sector and threaten the tremendously positive impact that automotive manufacturers and suppliers have had," according to the Business Council of Alabama, a state that's home to a Mercedes plant.       The council, whose members employ nearly 1 million Alabama residents, cited the 40,000 auto workers there as well as the $9.5 billion in cars and parts shipped from the state in 2017.       The numbers will only grow with a Toyota-Mazda project slated to employ 4,000 people, said Canary, the council's president, but “that all could be put at risk” through what he called “unnecessary interference” by the federal government.       Adding trade duties to automobiles and their components would also increase prices for consumers, leading to a slowdown in vehicle sales in the U.S. as car owners keep their current vehicles longer, warned the Chamber of Commerce in Chattanooga, Tenn.       The city is home to a Volkswagen plant while Tennessee, where Trump carried 61 percent of the 2016 vote, also boasts two Nissan factories.       “It makes sense to keep American-made automobiles affordable," the Chattanooga chamber said, "by leaving the tariff rates that currently apply to imported automobile parts at current levels."      