NEWYou can now listen to Fox News articles!  White House press secretary Sarah Sanders used her nationally televised press briefing Thursday to say some very important things about the round-the-clock unrelenting criticism of the president and his team coming from the Trump-hating mainstream media.While journalists have focused much attention on President Trump’s criticism of media bias and “fake news” – along with his description of many in the media as “enemies of the people” – they focus far less attention on their own blatant bias against the president.And you don’t see enough in the media about the bias of the most popular social media platforms against Republicans and other conservatives who want to express their opinions.Speaking to CNN’s famously anti-Trump correspondent Jim Acosta, Sanders said Thursday: “It’s ironic, Jim, that not only you and the media attack the president for his rhetoric when they frequently lower the level of conversation in this country. Repeatedly, repeatedly the media resorts to personal attacks without any content other than to incite anger.”Sanders went on to say to Acosta: “Repeatedly, the media has attacked me personally, on a number of occasions including your own network. Said I should be harassed as a life sentence. That I should be choked. ICE officials are not welcome in their place of worship and personal information is shared on the Internet. When I was hosted by the Correspondents Association, of which almost all of you are members of, you brought a comedian up to attack my appearance and call me a traitor to my own gender. In fact, as far as I know, I’m the first press secretary in the history of the United States that required Secret Service protection.”And on Wednesday, Sanders in a tweet: “Trump Derangement Syndrome is becoming a major epidemic among Democrats. Instead of freaking out about the booming Trump economy why not celebrate it?” She should have mentioned that many in the media are in the grip of Trump Derangement Syndrome as well.Yahoo, HuffPost, and a number of other liberal and far-left websites not only were offended by Sanders honest and accurate tweet, but cited evidence that the American people sided with them.But most Americans don’t – not by a long shot.Intense hatred of President Trump and his efforts to “drain the swamp,” put America First and end the uncontrolled flow of illegal immigration are driving Democrats, socialists (who have suddenly gone mainstream), the Hollywood crowd and their friends in the press nuts.These folks are taking to Twitter and other social media platforms and being spotlighted in the media to such a disproportionate extent that we get the impression that they speak for the majority of Americans – but that’s far from the case.This isn’t honest journalism. It’s magnified and made-up hysteria promulgated by the left for ideological reasons.Unfortunately, at times it has worked. And it has had a chilling effect on both freedom of speech and the right of Republican, libertarian and conservative Americans to make their voices heard.As we have discovered – based only upon their own partisan words and actions – Google, Facebook, and Twitter lean left to far-left with regard to the politics of their leadership. Because of that bias, they have used the pretext of “outrage from the twitterverse” to shut down or censor Republican, libertarian, conservative, and traditional Christian views.This is a growing and dangerous trend recently outlined and challenged by a coalition called Conservatives Against Online Censorship.President Trump himself recently spoke to this issue when he tweeted: “Twitter “SHADOW BANNING” prominent Republicans. Not good. We will look into this discriminatory and illegal practice at once! Many complaints.”While Twitter claims the “shadow banning” is the fault of an “algorithmic glitch,” there seem to be a lot of glitches censoring conservatives these days. With just a bit of digging and homework, it is easy to discover that this censorship truly is based only upon bias and an organized campaign by various far-left groups looking and hoping to delegitimize the increasingly successful Trump presidency.Those behind these troubling efforts still don’t get that tens of millions of Americans – with that number growing every day – are on to them.Millions of Republicans, independents and Democrats voted for Donald Trump because their voices, fears and hopes were ignored and disregarded by the liberal news media, entertainment industry, academia, and the elite-entrenched establishment from both political parties.These same millions of Americans now side with Sarah Sanders in support of President Trump. Based upon their own lives, experiences, and evidence all around them, they realize that the Trump economy is a rising tide lifting all boats. And they recognize that Trump Derangement Syndrome is an epidemic threatening the welfare of our nation.These pro-Trump Americans realize that the Trump-haters would rather destroy our economy than admit that President Trump is succeeding across the board. They are rooting for America to fail so Trump will fail and lose his bid for re-election.While Trump Derangement Syndrome is spreading among the walled-off, out-of-touch elites, hardworking Americans know there is one antidote and one antidote only that can save the health of the nation: six more years of a Trump presidency. 