
WASHINGTON - President Donald Trump canceled his plans for a Veteran's Day military parade due to the "ridiculously high" price tag.
The local politicians who run Washington, D.C. (poorly) know a windfall when they see it. When asked to give us a price for holding a great celebratory military parade, they wanted a number so ridiculously high that I cancelled it. Never let someone hold you up! I will instead...
— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) August 17, 2018
According to US officials, the parade would've carried an estimated price tag of $92 million, which is more than three times what the White House wanted to spend.
The US official told The Associated Press that the Pentagon would have covered roughly $50 million for "aircraft, equipment, personnel and other support for the November parade in Washington."
But Defense Secretary Jim Mattis hit back, questioning the source.
"I'm not dignifying that number ($92 million) with a reply. I would discount that, and anybody who said (that number), I'll almost guarantee you one thing: They probably said, 'I need to stay anonymous.' No kidding, because you look like an idiot. And No. 2, whoever wrote it needs to get better sources. I'll just leave it at that," Mattis said.
The White House budget director told lawmakers earlier this year the cost to taxpayers could be between $10 million and $30 million.
The parade was scheduled to include troops, military flyovers and units in period uniforms highlighting times throughout the nation's history.
A Pentagon planning memo released in March said the parade would feature a "heavy air component," likely including older, vintage aircraft. It also said there would be "wheeled vehicles only, no tanks -- consideration must be given to minimize damage to local infrastructure."
Last year, Trump decided to move forward with a military parade after attending France's Bastille Day celebration in Paris.
"We're going to have to try and top it," Trump said at the time.
But now it appears the spectacle is being put on hold until, at the earliest, next year.
