                  	President Biden speaks about the shooting of Daunte Wright at the White House in Washington, D.C., April 12, 2021.     	(Kevin Lamarque/Reuters)                     President Biden said it “remains to be determined” whether the police officer who fatally shot Daunte Wright, a black man, during a traffic stop in a Minneapolis suburb on Sunday did so on accident.
Biden’s comments on Monday came after Police Chief Tim Gannon of the Brooklyn Center Police Department described the shooting as “an accidental discharge.” Gannon said the officer had intended to discharge a taser and instead fired a single shot at the man. Gannon said officers pulled the 20-year-old over for a traffic violation and tried to detain him after learning he had an outstanding warrant. The man then reentered his car and an officer shot him.
The car rolled for several blocks until it hit another vehicle. Wright was pronounced dead at the scene. The officer, who has been identified only as a “very senior officer,” can be heard on body camera footage yelling “taser” before firing the single shot that killed Wright. She can then be heard saying “Oh s***, I just shot him.”
The president said the death was tragic “but we have to wait and see what the investigation shows.”       “The question is was it an accident? Was it intentional? That remains to be determined,” he said. “I’m calling for peace and calm and we should listen to Daunte’s mom, who is calling for peace and calm.”
On Sunday night, Wright’s mother, Katie Wright called on protestors to remain peaceful.
“All the violence, if it keeps going, it’s only going to be about the violence. We need it to be about why my son got shot for no reason,” she said. “We need to make sure it’s about him and not about smashing police cars, because that’s not going to bring my son back.”
Protests broke out in the city late Sunday into Monday, with demonstrators clashing with police outside the Brooklyn Center police headquarters. Some rioters threw rocks and other objects at officers.
National Guard members arrived in the city shortly before midnight to help local officers. The protests had largely petered out by 1:15 a.m. Monday, according to the AP.
“The fact is that, you know, we do know that the anger, pain and trauma that exists in the black community in that environment is real,” Biden said. “It’s serious and it’s consequential. But it will not justify violence and/or looting.” The fatal shooting comes amid the trial of Derek Chauvin, the former Minneapolis officer accused of killing George Floyd during his arrest last May. Chauvin is seen in a video of the arrest kneeling on Floyd’s neck for more than nine minutes until he became unconscious.
Floyd’s death set off months of protests and riots in cities nationwide.
Send a tip to the news team at NR.                   	Recommended          	NBC's 'Cataclysmic' Olympics-Coverage Flop     How can anyone feel good about these Olympics?              	Joe Biden Doesn’t Know What You’re Talking About     To watch Biden at the lectern was to experience shock and dismay interspersed with moments of alarm and dark humor. No wonder he hides from the media.              	Nikole Hannah-Jones Responds to Our 1619 and Slavery Issue     She reacted with a lot of sneering and ad hominem argumentation and nothing of substance.              	Maskless Super Bowl Marks Our Return to Normalcy     This collective moment was a warning to the Covid regime that its strictures won’t stand much longer.              	The Perfect Storm Is Coming     Not learning from the stagflationary past may lead to a stagflationary future.              	The Afghanistan Debacle Looks Worse and Worse     The more we learn about the administration’s withdrawal, the more it becomes clear that its decisions were driven by political considerations and panic.       	The Latest          	Nikki Haley Blasts American-Born Skier Competing for China at Beijing Olympics     'Every athlete needs to know when they put their flag on, you're standing for freedom or you're standing for human rights abuses,' said Haley.              	San Francisco Voters Overwhelmingly Back Recall of Progressive School-Board Members     More than 70 percent of voters supported the ouster of school board members Alison Collins, Gabriela López, and Faauuga Moliga.               How Georgetown Is Stifling Speech on Campus     The university is implementing the academic analog of a SLAPP suit against Ilya Shapiro.              	McKinsey Website Contradicts Denials of Chinese-Government Work; Rubio Claims ‘Cover-Up’     The consultancy once said it did work for China’s central government, undercutting recent statements.               	Imagine a Trumpdeau. You Can’t     If Trump had gone after the 2020 rioters the way Trudeau is targeting truckers, the institutions and the permanent government wouldn’t have complied.              	Building Back Stagflation     Our elected leaders must accept that inflation is a monster of their own making, and stop fanning the flames with ever-higher levels of government spending.        