Colin Powell, the former Republican Secretary of State who endorsed Barack Obama twice and accused conservatives of having a “dark vein” of racism inside them, is now advising President Trump to stop insulting people because Powell fears Trump will alienate the rest of the world.Speaking with CNN’s Fareed Zakaria on Sunday, General Powell said Trump’s calling the fake news media the “enemy of the people” and his walking away from international agreements is making the world a dangerous place.“What are we doing? We’re walking away from agreements, we’re walking away from alliances,” Powell said.As stated before, Powell endorsed Barack Obama twice and Hillary Clinton in 2016, even though ISIS arose under their watch, not to mention that whole Benghazi fiasco.“Do you think this president can be a moral leader for the world?” Zakaria asked Powell.“I don’t know that he can do that,” Powell said. “Because right now that is not the way he is acting. Recently, it has become ‘me the president’ as opposed to ‘we the people.'”“And you see things that should not be happening,” Powell continued. “How can a president of the United States get up and say that the media is the enemy of Americans? Hasn’t he read the First Amendment? You are not supposed to like everything the press says, or what anyone says … that’s why we have a First Amendment, to protect that kind of speech.”Powell hopes that Trump will stop insulting people — the same people who just spent three weeks trying to destroy an innocent man’s life — and accused the president of racism and sexism.“I hope the president can come to the realization that he should really stop insulting people,” Powell said. “I used this two years ago when I said I could not vote for him in the 2016 election. Why? He insulted everybody. He insulted African-Americans. He insulted women. He insulted immigrants. He insulted our best friends around the world. All of his fellow candidates up on the stage during the debates. I don’t think that’s what should be coming out of a president of the United States. But I don’t see anything that’s changed in the last two years.”“The world is watching,” Powell concluded. “They cannot believe we’re doing things like separating mothers and children who are trying to get across the border from south of our border. They can’t believe we’re making such an effort to cease immigration coming into the country. It’s what’s kept us alive!”