Over the weekend, the press began a narrative drumbeat suggesting that President Trump was somehow responsible for the Tree of Life Synagogue shooting in Pittsburgh on Saturday – the deadliest anti-Semitic shooting in American history. On Monday, key members of the press amplified that message by quoting supposed Pittsburgh Jewish leaders saying the same thing. Here, for example, was Maggie Haberman of The New York Times:Bend The Arc, the group quoted here, wrote a letter stating:For the past three years your words and your policies have emboldened a growing white nationalist movement. You yourself called the murderer evil, but yesterday’s violence is the direct culmination of your influence. President Trump, you are not welcome in Pittsburgh until you fully denounce white nationalism. Our Jewish community is not the only group you have targeted. You have also deliberately undermined the safety of people of color, Muslims, LGBTQ people, and people with disabilities. Yesterday’s massacre is not the first act of terror you incited against a minority group in our country. President Trump, you are not welcome in Pittsburgh until you stop targeting and endangering all minorities.So, is Bend The Arc really a group of “Jewish leaders”? Only in name. The group is merely a Leftist political action group with a Jewish label. Their stated mission is “rising up in solidarity with everyone threatened by the Trump agenda to fight for the soul of our nation.” Their missions include the election of “progressive champions” and the implementation of “progressive legislation and policies, like criminal justice reform and economic equity.”Who runs Bend The Arc? Alexander Soros, George Soros’ son. When he started the PAC, Politico noted, “Soros, who formed his own foundation in 2012 to promote social justice and human rights, has given $1.2 million to Democratic candidates and groups in the last three elections.” (It should be noted here that criticism of the political viewpoint of major Democratic donors is not anti-Semitism; it is normal politics.) The director of Bend The Arc was Hadar Susskind, formerly a staffer at the anti-Semitic front group J Street, which spends its days attempting to undermine the safety and security of the state of Israel.None of the headlines mentioned what Bend The Arc actually is: a far-left political action group with little relationship to Judaism itself. Instead, the media just ran with the headline.Washington Post: “‘He is not welcome here’: Thousands support Pittsburgh Jewish leaders calling on Trump to ‘denounce white nationalism’”The Hill: “Progressive Jewish leaders tell Trump he’s not welcome in Pittsburgh until he denounces white nationalism”Newsweek: “Jewish Group says Donald Trump not welcome in Pittsburgh until he is ready to fully denounce white nationalism”Here’s the real headline: Rabbi Jeffrey Myers of the Tree of Life Synagogue told CNN this morning, “The President of the United States is always welcome. I’m a citizen. He’s my president. He is certainly welcome.” That’s not going to get the same kind of media coverage. It’s no wonder why.