                  	House Speaker designate Nancy Pelosi (D, Calif.) speaks to reporters after meeting with President Donald Trump at the White House in Washington, D.C., December 11, 2018.      (Jonathan Ernst/Reuters)                     Representative Nancy Pelosi (D., Calif.), who is expected to be elevated to Speaker of the House Thursday, has refused to rule out the possibility of indicting President Trump while he is in office.
Asked whether special counsel Robert Mueller should respect Department of Justice guidelines that suggest a sitting president can not be indicted, Pelosi seemed to suggest that guidance could be ignored in certain circumstances. “I do not think that that is conclusive. No, I do not,” Pelosi told NBC’s Savannah Guthrie during an interview that aired Thursday on “Today.”
“Let’s just see what Mueller does. Let’s spend our time on getting results for the American people,” she added when asked directly if Mueller can indict a sitting president.
Mueller’s team is currently investigating Russian interference in the 2016 election and possible coordination with the Trump campaign. Mueller has indicted multiple high-ranking Trump campaign officials on crimes seemingly unrelated to Russian interference and he is expected to release a report to Congress detailing his findings as soon as mid-February.       The relevant Justice Department guidance, drafted in 2000 by the office of legal counsel, states: “The indictment or criminal prosecution of a sitting President would unconstitutionally undermine the capacity of the executive branch to perform its constitutionally assigned functions.”
In making the case that the guidance in question might be ignored, Pelosi pointed out that it there is no existing legislation prohibiting the indictment of a sitting president.
“It’s not the law,” Pelosi told Guthrie. “Everything indicates that a president can be indicted after he is no longer president of the United States.”
“A president who’s in office? Could Robert Mueller come back and say I am seeking an indictment?” Guthrie responded.
“I think that is an open discussion,” Pelosi said. “I think that’s an open discussion in terms of the law.”
Pelosi, who served as the first female Speaker of the House from 2007 to 2011, is expected to reclaim the gavel in a Thursday afternoon leadership vote. The veteran California lawmaker has attempted to avoid the question of Trump’s impeachment in the weeks leading up to the leadership vote but has pledged to thoroughly investigate the president using Congressional subpoena power.
Send a tip to the news team at NR.                   	Recommended          	NBC's 'Cataclysmic' Olympics-Coverage Flop     How can anyone feel good about these Olympics?              	Joe Biden Doesn’t Know What You’re Talking About     To watch Biden at the lectern was to experience shock and dismay interspersed with moments of alarm and dark humor. No wonder he hides from the media.              	Nikole Hannah-Jones Responds to Our 1619 and Slavery Issue     She reacted with a lot of sneering and ad hominem argumentation and nothing of substance.              	Maskless Super Bowl Marks Our Return to Normalcy     This collective moment was a warning to the Covid regime that its strictures won’t stand much longer.              	The Perfect Storm Is Coming     Not learning from the stagflationary past may lead to a stagflationary future.              	The Afghanistan Debacle Looks Worse and Worse     The more we learn about the administration’s withdrawal, the more it becomes clear that its decisions were driven by political considerations and panic.       	The Latest          	Nikki Haley Blasts American-Born Skier Competing for China at Beijing Olympics     'Every athlete needs to know when they put their flag on, you're standing for freedom or you're standing for human rights abuses,' said Haley.              	San Francisco Voters Overwhelmingly Back Recall of Progressive School-Board Members     More than 70 percent of voters supported the ouster of school board members Alison Collins, Gabriela López, and Faauuga Moliga.               How Georgetown Is Stifling Speech on Campus     The university is implementing the academic analog of a SLAPP suit against Ilya Shapiro.              	McKinsey Website Contradicts Denials of Chinese-Government Work; Rubio Claims ‘Cover-Up’     The consultancy once said it did work for China’s central government, undercutting recent statements.               	Imagine a Trumpdeau. You Can’t     If Trump had gone after the 2020 rioters the way Trudeau is targeting truckers, the institutions and the permanent government wouldn’t have complied.              	Building Back Stagflation     Our elected leaders must accept that inflation is a monster of their own making, and stop fanning the flames with ever-higher levels of government spending.        