           I’ve never met a liberal who’s afraid to admit this moniker publicly. Alas, I can’t ascribe the same courage to conservatives: most of them privately confess to me, in hushed tones, that they fear exposing their political leanings.
I see no difference in behaviors when I review the voting and governing records of politicians — and adjudicating records of judges and justices.
By the way, I made similar points almost two years ago, when castigating the Republicans’ unwillingness to repeal and replace Obamacare, in “Healthcare Debacle Shows GOP Needs RINOplasty.”
Today, Nancy Pelosi has once again become speaker of the U.S. House of Representatives. There were no other known contenders who possess her power, derived from fundraising.
Nancy is hell-bent on passing socialist legislation, denying any funding for the border wall, investigating President Trump and his family in every conceivable aspect of their current and former lives, and possibly impeaching the president.
Pelosi isn’t remotely shy about her objectives. She is proud to carry the open-borders mantle, not caring about the injurious consequences. I believe she can and will cause a lot of damage to America and to Trump.
Alexandra Pelosi, documentary filmmaker and youngest child of the once-again speaker, appeared Wednesday of this week on CNN’s “New Day,” issuing this warning about her mother:
“She’ll cut your head off and you won’t even know you’re bleeding. That’s all you need to know about her. No one ever won betting against Nancy Pelosi. She’s persevered. You gotta give her credit. No matter what you think about her, you have to give her credit because, think about it, think about all of those presidents she’s endured. The Bush, the Bush, the Clinton — she’s been through it all. She’s been around. This is not her first rodeo.”
So-called conservative pundits and politicians reacted to Alexandra’s words with the usual shock and indignation.
I was neither shocked nor indignant.
In fact, my first reaction: Can anyone name a Republican, other than, perhaps, Donald Trump, whom people generally fear and about whom one can attribute the same anxiety-inducing characteristics?
Time’s up. The answer is, no.
Since Donald Trump’s inauguration until today, Republicans have controlled the executive branch, the House, and the Senate. Yet, the wall at the Mexican border, a centerpiece of Trump’s campaign platform, remains unfunded. The people are frighteningly divided. Obamacare still lives, sort of, absent the individual mandate.
Now that Democrats control the House, with Pelosi back at the helm, the level of chaos in our country will skyrocket, and the conservative agenda, as it were, will move forward like molasses in January.
Sadly, the Republicans have no Nancy Pelosis — or even one Nancy Pelosi. They are, evidently, too scared and embarrassed to be true small-r republicans.
Margaret Thatcher, former prime minister of the UK, once correctly observed that the facts of life are conservative. Given the midterm election that returned the House to Democratic control, voters prefer to live by the myths of life.
If Nancy Pelosi were Republican — a fearless, feared, persevering defender of freedom, small government, and the Constitution — her fervor would be contagious, and the U.S. would be moving on a prudent trajectory.
Unfortunately, neither is true.
Instead, with a national debt of nearly $22 trillion — and endlessly climbing — we are bleeding, and we don’t even know it.
Marc Rudov is a branding advisor to CEOs, speaker, media commentator, and author of "Brand Is Destiny: The Ultimate Bottom Line" and "Be Unique or Be Ignored: The CEO’s Guide to Branding." Find him at MarcRudov.com. For more of his reports, Go Here Now.                              © 2022 Newsmax. All rights reserved.         