                House Speaker Nancy Pelosi at the State of the Union, Feb. 5 (Photo: Patrick Robertson/CBN News)
Speaker of the House of Representatives Nancy Pelosi (D-CA) says it's "just not worth it" to attempt to impeach President Donald Trump.
She told the Washington Post, "Unless there's something so compelling and overwhelming and bipartisan, I don't think we should go down that path, because it divides the country."
Still, Pelosi doesn't think Trump deserves to be president. "Are we talking ethically? Intellectually? Politically? What are we talking here?" she said. "All of the above. No. No. I don't think he is... I mean, ethically unfit. Intellectually unfit. Curiosity-wise unfit. No, I don't think he's fit to be president of the United States."
Reaction from fellow Democrats on Pelosi's rejection of impeachment is mixed. Some believe there isn't enough evidence against the president or public support for impeachment. Others aren't giving up their push to impeach him.
New York Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez told the Washington Examiner that she disagrees with the speaker. She believes Pelosi's view could change if something is revealed by Special Counsel Robert Mueller's investigation into Russian meddling in the 2016 election.
And other members of the party already think the president should be investigated and impeached. Last week, House committees led by Democrats launched a series of new investigations against the president.
Anti-Trump lawmakers like Rep. Maxine Waters (D-CA) are saying they will not give up their attempts to impeach Trump. Waters is the chairwoman of the House Financial Services Committee which is probing Trump's finances.
"The Constitution gives us the authority and the responsibility to decide whether a president is acting in the best interest of his country... I believe we have everything needed to basically impeach Trump," Waters recently stated on MSNBC.
She recently tweeted: "For the faint of heart, who've been waiting for every "t" to be crossed and every "i" to be dotted, now is the time to demonstrate your patriotism. Support impeachment!"
For the faint of heart, who've been waiting for every "t" to be crossed and every "i" to be dotted, now is the time to demonstrate your patriotism. Support impeachment!
— Maxine Waters (@RepMaxineWaters) March 5, 2019
Then there's freshman congresswoman Rashida Tlaib (D-MI) who publicly called Trump a "motherf*****", and she's not giving up her plans to impeach Trump either.
"Today, I announced that later this month, I will be introducing a resolution to have the Judiciary Committee move on investigating grounds for impeachment. Our democracy must be protected," she tweeted recently.
Today, I announced that later this month, I will be introducing a resolution to have the Judiciary Committee move on investigating grounds for impeachment. Our democracy must be protected. @by_the_ppl @CREDOMobile #accountabilityNow pic.twitter.com/qWXfE6zLmp
— Rashida Tlaib (@RashidaTlaib) March 6, 2019
Meanwhile, the left-wing media isn't giving up on their hopes of impeaching Trump. MSNBC's Chris Matthews said, "Some argue that the push for impeachment (of President Trump) is ahead of schedule. I think a stronger argument can be made it's behind schedule."                            