           Sunday’s White Settlement, Texas, church shooting, which was over in 6 seconds, should have been a lesson to politicians who repeatedly push for more stringent gun control laws.
In the wake of the November 5, 2017, Sutherland Springs Baptist Church shooting that injured 20 and took 27 lives, including those of the shooter and an unborn child, the state of Texas could have followed the lead of most other states.
Because the Sutherland Springs gunman used a Ruger AR-556 to inflict his carnage, Texas could have banned AR-style weapons. But that wouldn’t have changed what happened Sunday.
Because the Sutherland Springs gunman used a magazine that held more than 10 rounds, Texas could have banned those as well, again, with no effect on Sunday.
Instead it enacted a statute permitting licensed concealed carriers to carry weapons in places of worship, and enacted another that permitted non-profits, including places of worship, to appoint willing members holding such permits to serve as security guards.
When the legislation was passed and signed into law in September, former Vice President Joe Biden was aghast.
“It is irrational, with all due respect to the governor of Texas, it’s irrational what they’re doing,” Biden told reporters. “It's just absolutely irrational."
Former Democratic presidential hopeful Robert Francis “Beto” O’Rourke, lamented Sunday’s shooting.
“So saddened to hear about another church shooting in Texas, this one in White Settlement near Fort Worth,” he said, then made a comment that indicated he didn’t know a thing about it.
“Clearly what we are doing in Texas, what we are doing in this country, when it comes to guns is not working,” he added.
When Texas Attorney General Ken Paxton told reporters that Sunday’s shooting “shocked and saddened” him, Shannon Watts shot back that he shouldn’t be, because “As Texas Attorney General, he specifically made sure that guns are allowed inside churches in the state.”
Obviously Watts, who founded Moms Demand Action for Gun Sense in America, and describes herself as “the NRA’s worst nightmare,” clearly didn’t know the details either.
The alleged assailant entered the West Freeway Church of Christ in disguise. After shooting and killing two churchgoers with a shotgun, Jack Wilson, 71, and head of the church's security, drew his own weapon and put the shooter down.
Wilson, who is running for a Tarrant County Commission seat, is also a former law enforcement officer, is a firearms instructor, and until 2016 was president of On Target Firearms Training Academy.
Reuters got its signals crossed on that last point, and rushed to judgment with a detail it thought might be a note of irony. It originally reported that the assailant, not Wilson, was a firearms instructor and trained many of the churchgoers.
From that, readers were apparently supposed to walk away believing that firearms are evil, and those who teach other in their use are evil also.
Daily Wire reporter Ryan Saavedra set the record straight Monday.
“Here we go again with the media falsely accusing the evil attacker in yesterday's church shooting of being the owner of a gun range ... it was the good guy, Jack Wilson, who owned the gun range,” Saavedra reported. “Reuters had to retract their BS story. The media always lies about guns & gun owners.”
Reuters announced that “Story on assailant in Texas church training worshipers is withdrawn.”
Watts, along with O’Rourke, Biden, Reuters, and nearly every liberal lawmaker and media figure who huff and puff immediately after every shooting and demand stricter gun laws that affect only law-abiding gun owners, ignore common sense.
Susana Lee argued in Quartz that the notion that a good guy with a gun is needed to stop a bad guy with a gun has become “a deadly American fantasy.”
CNN politics reporter Chris Cillizza argued that the 2018 Valentine’s Day mass shooting at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School provided "definitive proof" that the "good guy with a gun" theory doesn’t always work.
That’s true — it also takes a good guy with adequate training and the resolve to act.
Liberals also ignore a basic principle. While emotion may come into play when granting mercy, it has no place when passing legislation. Lawmakers must make their decisions dispassionately — like Texas did. Reason above all else must prevail.
When Texas lawmakers allowed concealed carriers to be armed in places of worship, it announced that such places were no longer gun free zones for law-abiding citizens.
Criminals don’t recognize gun free zones. That’s why they’re called criminals. The new law simply put legal gun owners on an equal footing with criminals. And it worked.
Michael Dorstewitz is a retired lawyer and has been a frequent contributor to BizPac Review and Liberty Unyielding. He is also a former U.S. Merchant Marine officer and an enthusiastic Second Amendment supporter, who can often be found honing his skills at the range. To read more of his reports — Click Here Now.                              © 2022 Newsmax. All rights reserved.         