                 	House Speaker Nancy Pelosi arrives to meet with reporters following escalation of tensions of between the US and Iran.       AP                       The House on Thursday voted largely along party lines to approve a non-binding war powers resolution aimed at limiting President Trump’s ability to take military action against Iran.
Speaker Nancy Pelosi said the move was necessary after the drone attack that killed Qassem Soleimani, the top Iranian general, and Trump’s subsequent threats to escalate the conflict. “We have no illusions about Iran, no illusions about Soleimani, who was a terrible person,” she said.
“But it’s not about how bad they are, it’s about how good we are, protecting the people in a way that prevents war and will not have us producing again and again generations of veterans who are suffering.”
The vote was 224-194, with several apparent abstentions, three Republicans voting in favor and eight Democrats voting against it, including Rep. Max Rose of Staten Island, NY, who said Trump was justified in killing the Quds Force commander.
“President Trump was justified in killing a terrorist who was responsible for the murder of hundreds of American service members and was in the process of planning to kill more,” Rose said.
“Unfortunately, today’s War Powers Resolution is a non-binding resolution that simply restates existing law and sends the message that war is imminent. I refuse to play politics with questions of war and peace and therefore will not support this resolution.”
The measure will next go to the Senate.
White House deputy press secretary Hogan Gidley later responded, “The President has the right and duty to protect this nation and our citizens from terrorism. That’s what he continues to do, and the world is safer for it.
“This House resolution tries to undermine the ability of the U.S. Armed Forces to prevent terrorist activity by Iran and its proxies, and attempts to hinder the President’s authority to protect America and our interests in the region from the continued threats. These Congressional actions are completely misguided. In fact, this ridiculous resolution is just another political move because, under well-established Supreme Court precedent, it’s non-binding and lacks the force of law,” he said in a statement issued ahead of the president’s rally in Toledo, Ohio.
“President Trump’s decision to strike Qassem Soleimani, the world’s leading terrorist, was the right course of action and authorized under his constitutional powers as Commander in Chief and Chief Executive as well as the 2002 Authorization for Use of Military Force.”                                             