President Donald Trump used a signing ceremony for a new North American trade agreement Wednesday to praise Republicans who have defended him during his impeachment trial – and inviting half the sitting GOP senators who are hearing his case.With the full Senate meeting just hours later during a critical new phase of his impeachment trial, Trump made no effort to mask the power play he and his advisors orchestrated.As he read through the list of 27 individual GOP senators invited to attend the event, Trump observed: 'Maybe I'm just being nice to them because I want their vote.' President Donald Trump holds up the signed United States - Mexico -Canada Trade Agreement, known as USMCA, during a ceremony on the South Lawn of the White House in Washington, DC, January 29, 2020. He read through a list of 27 invited Republicans amid impeachmentHe singled out Indiana Mike Braun for his defenses of the president, saying he has become 'a big fixture on television and has been doing a great job. Braun regularly has appeared with other Republicans to do interviews during trial breaks. Trump said Sen. Ted Cruz of Texas was 'dying to get back there and ask those questions' – referencing the next impeachment trial phase. 'He's got some beauties, I bet. Thank you, Ted, you've been incredible.' Cruz has also been facing the cameras to defend Trump during impeachment.And he said new appointed Georgia senator Kelly Loeffler has been 'really great,' adding: 'They already like you a lot.' She torched Sen. Mitt Romney of Utah for saying he wants to hear from John Bolton in the trial. Trump on Twitter has waged a campaign to attack Bolton and argue against his appearance as a witness. Also there was Transportation secretary Elaine Chao, the wife of Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell, who is spearheading Trump's defense and drafted the rules that put off a key Senate vote on allowing witnesses. Trump joked that he didn't need House members' votes – House Republicans already voted against his impeachment on two articles. 'Hey Congressmen, I already got your vote, 196 to nothing. To hell with you,' he quipped. The article charging Abuse of Power passed 230 to 197, and the Obstruction of Congress article passed 229-198, with every House Republican opposed to each. After he ran through the list of Republican senators, Trump joked: 'The rest of you I don't have to bother with,' Trump said.'You know the way it works in life, right Ivanka?' Trump said, mentioning his daughter,' he said.Trump made the comments in an outdoor ceremony at the White House to be attended by about 400 guests - but not the key Democrats who helped secure congressional passage of the deal. Trump signed a renegotiated trade pact between the U.S., Mexico, and Canada White House senior adviser Jared Kushner arrives with White House adviser and first daughter Ivanka Trump both attended the event Trump began the morning blasting former national security advisor John Bolton Also there was Transportation secretary Elaine Chao, the wife of Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnellGuests invited to the South Lawn signing include lawmakers from around the country, workers, farmers, and CEOs, as well as officials from Mexico and Canada, a White House official said.Not invited were House Ways and Means Committee Chairman Richard Neal and other Democrats who negotiated for months to expand the pact's labor, environmental and enforcement provisions and ensure the approval of the Democratically-controlled House, said sources familiar with the situation.Neal also took part in the House Democratic impeachment inquiry – and has led an effort to gain access to Trump tax return information. The event takes place in the middle of Trump's impeachment trial, amid signs that some of his fellow Republicans may allow the calling of witnesses like former national security adviser John Bolton. President Donald Trump displays, after signing, a new North American trade agreement with Canada and Mexico, during an event at the White House, Wednesday, Jan. 29, 2020, in WashingtonTrump's legal team on Tuesday sought to minimize the importance of an unpublished book manuscript by Bolton that describes Trump's central role in a pressure campaign aimed at getting Ukraine to investigate Joe Biden, a top contender for the Democratic nomination to face Trump in this year's election.Trump had made renegotiating the 26-year-old North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA) a major campaign issue in 2016, and plans to tout its replacement at events in coming weeks as he campaigns for a second term in office.'Along with members of Congress, state and local leaders, and workers from across the country, including farmers, ranchers, and entrepreneurs, President Trump will celebrate another promise made, promise kept to the American people when he signs the U.S.-Mexico-Canada Agreement (USMCA),' White House spokesman Judd Deere said.'USMCA rebalances trade in North America, replaces the job-killing NAFTA, ends the outsourcing of American jobs, and invests in the American worker,' he said.The United States-Mexico-Canada Agreement must still be ratified by Canada before it can take effect. The U.S. Senate this month overwhelmingly approved the legislation, sending the measure to Trump for him to sign into law.The Mexican parliament has already approved the deal.Congressional aides said it could take several months before the trade accord is implemented, since the three countries must show they are meeting its obligations before the clock starts ticking on an effective date.The USMCA includes tougher rules on labor and automotive content but leaves $1.2 trillion in annual U.S.-Mexico-Canada trade flows largely unchanged.