     A British politician was stabbed to death Friday by a man who stormed into a church where the MP was meeting constituents — in an attack police said was an act of terrorism. David Amess, a lawmaker in British Prime Minister Boris Johnson’s Conservative Party, was stabbed several times by a man who was arrested as armed police swooped into the church in Essex around midday, officials said. “The early investigation has revealed a potential motivation linked to Islamist extremism,” Metropolitan Police at New Scotland Yard said in a statement. Essex Police said that Amess, 69, “was treated by emergency services but, sadly, died at the scene.” “A 25-year-old man was quickly arrested after officers arrived at the scene on suspicion of murder and a knife was recovered,” the force said. “We are not looking for anyone else,” police stressed, while appealing for witnesses and anyone who may have caught something on surveillance cameras. Emergency services at the scene near the Belfairs Methodist Church, where Conservative MP Sir David Amess was stabbed to death.Nick Ansell/PA via AP Essex Police’s top cop, Ben-Julian Harrington, later confirmed that the investigation “is being led by officers from the specialist counter-terrorism command.” The veteran politician, a married father of five, had been holding routine one-on-one meetings with local constituents, which he promoted on Twitter. David Amess, a lawmaker in British Prime Minister Boris Johnson’s Conservative Party, was attacked.AP It was not immediately clear why the politician — who has been a lawmaker since 1983 — was targeted. His website lists his main interests as “animal welfare and pro-life issues.” The Telegraph said that the suspect was a Somalian man who was calm and compliant after the slaughter. Witnesses told the Sun that armed officers “completely and utterly swamped” the quiet seaside town. Emergency services are stationed at the scene near the Belfairs Methodist Church on Eastwood Road North, where Conservative MP Sir David Amess was stabbed to death.Nick Ansell/PA via AP “I saw someone get taken out the building, put into the back of a police car,” one recalled, calling it “very distressing.” Aerial footage showed several ambulances and an air ambulance waiting near the church. Amess was not breathing when emergency responders arrived, and it soon became clear that his condition was dire when he was not airlifted away, Sky News noted. My thoughts and love are with David’s family. They are all that matter now. This brings everything back. The pain, the loss, but also how much love the public gave us following the loss of Jo. I hope we can do the same for David now. pic.twitter.com/hwRN0PODPK— Brendan Cox (@MrBrendanCox) October 15, 2021 As flags at Parliament were lowered to half-staff, UK leader Johnson said that “all our hearts are full of shock and sadness.” “He was one of the kindest, nicest, most gentle people in politics,” Johnson said. 
“David was a man who believed passionately in this country and in its future. And we’ve lost today a fine public servant and a much loved friend and colleague.” The attack comes five years after MP Jo Cox, 41, was gunned down and stabbed to death in June 2016. Thomas Mair, 53, was sentenced to spend the rest of his life behind bars for the murder.  Her widower, Brendan Cox, tweeted Friday that it “brings everything back. The pain, the loss.” “Attacking our elected representatives is an attack on democracy itself,” he wrote. “It is as cowardly as it gets.” Stephen Timms, an opposition Labour MP who survived a 2010 stabbing, also tweeted that he was “appalled to hear of the attack.” Timms was stabbed in the stomach by a female student radicalized by online sermons from an al Qaeda-linked preacher. Fellow Conservative MP Michael Fabricant called news of the stabbing “just awful.” “David Amess is one of the most lovely, uncontentious, caring MPs in Parliament” and “a really nice chap,” he tweeted. “Nobody should go to work and be stabbed!” he said, sending “prayers for a speedy recovery.” Opposition leader Sir Keir Starmer called it “horrific and deeply shocking news.” 
As well as the attacks on Cox and Timms, Liberal Democrat lawmaker Nigel Jones was injured in 2000 by a man wielding a sword during a constituent meeting in Cheltenham. The MP’s aide, Andrew Pennington, was killed. With Post wires   	