        The unvaccinated are on the CDC’s holiday travel naughty list. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention released new guidance ahead of the holidays that encouraged people to get their COVID-19 shot before gathering and wear a mask in some cases regardless of vaccination status 
And unvaccinated people were advised to stay home altogether. “CDC still recommends delaying travel until you are fully vaccinated,” the agency said, which is encouraging masks be worn in transit.  “We fully expect that families and friends will gather for the holidays this year and we have updated our guidance on how to best to stay safe over the holidays,” the agency wrote in a statement on Friday. “The best way to minimize COVID risk and ensure that people can safely gather is to get vaccinated or get the booster if you’re eligible.” 
The CDC released new guidance recommending people get the COVID-19 vaccine before gathering for the holidays and wear masks in some situations.Getty Images/iStockphoto The agency said that people, even if they’ve been vaccinated, should wear masks for festive activities in public indoor spaces or if they’re spending the holidays with someone who has health risks. “You might choose to wear a mask regardless of the level of transmission if a member of your household has a weakened immune system, is at increased risk for severe disease, or is unvaccinated,” the guidance said. The CDC advised unvaccinated people to not go to holiday gatherings.Getty Images/iStockphoto For those gathering with loved ones from different households, the guidance also suggested taking additional precautions. “If you are gathering with a group of people from multiple households and potentially from different parts of the country, you could consider additional precautions (e.g., avoiding crowded indoor spaces before travel, taking a test) in advance of gathering to further reduce risk,” the agency said. The CDC also said all people should wear masks if they are indoor or with an at-risk person.Getty Images The guidance comes as experts have warned that it could potentially be a chaotic holiday travel season. Around 40 percent of Transportation Security Administration workers are unvaccinated ahead of the federal deadline, potentially leading to staffing shortages on Thanksgiving.   	