 NEWYou can now listen to Fox News articles!  Good morning and welcome to Fox News First. Here's what you need to know as you start your day ... Super Tuesday could leave race even more unsettled, as Biden aims to check Sanders’ momentum
On the eve of Super Tuesday, a confident Joe Biden glanced back to his landslide victory in South Carolina over the weekend and looked ahead to what he thinks will be a very good night. The former vice president told supporters in Houston that "we won in South Carolina, and we’ll win in Texas tomorrow.” 
Texas is the second biggest prize on Super Tuesday – when a third of all Democratic presidential nomination delegates are up for grabs. Fourteen states from coast to coast hold primaries on a single day.Biden – who nearly pulled even with front-runner Sen. Bernie Sanders of Vermont in the delegate hunt thanks to a larger than expected victory in South Carolina – is aiming to prevent Sanders from capturing a large lead in the crucial battle for convention delegates. Biden’s goal is to firmly cement his status as the moderate alternative to Sanders – the populist lawmaker who describes himself as a democratic socialist. 
Just a week ago, that seemed like a daunting task. Sanders was poised to carry his big victories in the early states into Super Tuesday and become virtually uncatchable in the delegate game. But as Biden’s South Carolina win prompted rivals to drop out and close ranks behind him, the former vice president is now a viable threat to Sanders. And Super Tuesday, in turn, may not settle things as much as previously thought. Click here for more on our top story. 
Other developments from the 2020 presidential race: - What to look for on Super Tuesday
- Biden scores endorsements, stuns with gun-control offer to O’Rourke
- Michael Moore under fire for saying South Carolina 'is not representative' of US
- Bloomberg, at Fox News Town Hall, predicts 'horse trading' and 'deals' at contested conventionTrump touts progress in battling coronavirus at North Carolina campaign rally as more infections are reported in US
President Trump boasted of his administration’s work in combating the coronavirus during a campaign rally in Charlotte, N.C. Monday evening, while laying into Democrats and his political rivals for trying to “politicize” the outbreak. 
Trump promised that there will soon be a vaccine ready to deal with the deadly virus and said that his administration is working hard to contain the current outbreak in the United States. “My administration has taken the most aggressive approach in American history to deal with coronavirus,” Trump said on stage at the Bojangles Coliseum. “We have strong borders and our tough and early actions have proven 100 percent right.”     FILE - In this Jan. 26, 2020, file photo, firefighters work the scene of a helicopter crash where former NBA basketball star Kobe Bryant died in Calabasas, Calif. Los Angeles County Sheriff Alex Villanueva says eight deputies allegedly took or shared graphic photos of the helicopter crash scene, but he ordered them deleted. (AP Photo/Mark J. Terrill, File)    Laura Ingraham warns that if Democrats' "rescue effort" on Joe Biden succeeds and he wins the nomination and beats Trump in November, he will just be a "figurehead president" and "the swamp will win again."Not signed up yet for Fox News First? Click here to find out what you're missing.Don't miss Fox News' live primetime team coverage of Super Tuesday results starting tonight at 6 ET! Click here to find out what's on Fox News and Fox News Radio today!
Fox News First is compiled by Fox News' Bryan Robinson. Thank you for making us your first choice in the morning! Enjoy your day! We'll see you in your inbox first thing Wednesday morning. 