
While all eyes were on the Nevada Caucuses, people in Super Tuesday states started receiving their absentee ballots. In places like California, voters are encouraged to vote absentee. It's been a way to garner greater political involvement and participation.Adam Housley, a former correspondent for Fox News, said he received two ballots: one for non-party preference (NPP) and one for the libertarian ticket. What makes the scenario even more troubling? Housley said he has never registered as a libertarian. Congrats California you have sent me two ballots. One as a non party preference, which I’ve been for 20 years and one as a Libertarian...which I have never registered. Neither one has many choices other than new taxes. Being honest and ripping one up. Makes me wonder tho pic.twitter.com/6QDS0zPX2V— Adam Housley (@adamhousley) February 21, 2020In a state with millions of people, a small flub here and there is likely to happen, but it turns out Housley wasn't the only one who received multiple ballots.. I also got two. When I called the Elections office they said they were getting lots of calls about that. Mine was because I switched parties, but still...— NapaValleyChick (@NapaValleyChick) February 21, 2020I moved to Texas in 2012 & changed my license but still have a home in CA. I still get mail in ballots to vote in CA. If I wasn’t an honest person I could easily vote in both.— Anne Carrillo (@wildcatanne) February 21, 2020I didn’t get two ballots but my party preference was changed from Republican to No Preference.— NorwichFan (@SiosNorwich) February 22, 2020My son received 2 also followed by a letter which stated "they" were in error. Received a ballot for my wife who passed away last October. Sent it back....— Scott (@bakerinCA) February 22, 2020Democrats continually wonder why voter fraud exists. There are multiple reasons:Automatic Voter Registration When people get a driver's license or identification card, they are automatically registered to vote unless they opt-out. That automatic registration begins when people get their licenses at 16-years-old but doesn't go into effect until the person turns 18. How do we know that the state is actually keeping that information safe for a year or two until the individual decides to vote? How do we know their party preference has changed in that time frame?The Push for Absentee BallotsOver the last 10 years, there has been a massive push to get voters to utilize absentee ballots. This helps ensure people make more informed decisions and vote at their own convenience, but along with that convenience comes risk. There's no way to verify that the person whose name is on the ballot is the one who actually voted. There's no way to know that the right person actually received the ballot. And there's nothing keeping thieves from stealing a ballot out of a person's mailbox. 
Lack of Voter VerificationWhen people show up at the polls they're not always required to show their ID, especially in liberal states like California. The poll worker simply asks you for your name and address and off you go. Again, there's no way for them to verify you are who you say you are. And that's why people who have passed away are still casting votes from their graves. What's taking place in California really isn't all that surprising. It just reaffirms the idea that voter rolls need to be purged every year or two, people's information needs to be verified and cross-referenced before ballots are sent out and IDs need to be checked at the polling booth. These are simple fixes but they're the very ones that Democrats are resistant to.
