                 	Travis Dyson       Facebook                       Andrew Gillum was caught in a room with more than just drugs.
The man who overdosed on crystal meth in a Florida hotel room with Gillum, a Democrat who made an unsuccessful bid for Florida governor, was an openly gay male escort with a profile on the website RentMen.com, Florida’s Local10 reported Friday.
Travis Dyson also identified himself as a “pornstar performer” who offered services including “gay massage.” He went by the name Brodie Scott on his RentMen profile.
“I like kissing and foreplay… lots of kissing and foreplay. I enjoy my nipple rings lightly played with. Mutual touch and intimacy goes a long way,” he said on his now-deleted page, according to Heavy.com.
Dyson did not immediately respond to a request for comment from The Post.
Gillum has been married to wife R. Jai Gillum since 2009. The couple has three children.
The former Tallahassee mayor was found vomiting and intoxicated with Dyson at the Mondrian South Beach, according to a police report first obtained by the Miami Herald.
Gillum was not arrested but “was unable to communicate with officers due to his inebriated state,” according to the report.
Dyson rented the room on behalf of a third man, Aldo Mejias, 56, who arrived at the hotel around 11 p.m. to find both men severely under the influence of unknown substances. Dyson collapsed on the bed immediately after opening the door; Gillum was in the bathroom vomiting, the report said.
Police were called around midnight and Dyson was taken to a local hospital after what cops believed was a suspected drug overdose.
In a statement, Gillum offered an apology — but insisted he had stayed drug-free.
“I was in Miami last night for a wedding celebration when first responders were called to assist one of my friends. While I had too much to drink, I want to be clear that I have never used methamphetamines,” he said. “I apologize to the people of Florida for the distraction this has caused our movement.”
Gillum did not immediately respond to a request for comment from The Post.                                             