
Yesterday the First Lady gave a speech in Chicago about guns, obviously her forte. In the speech she compared herself to Hadiya Pendleton who was shot just a week after performing at the inauguration. Mrs. Obama said, “Hadiya Pendleton was me, and I was her”.
The First Lady went on to say:
"Thousands of children in this city live in neighborhoods where a funeral for a teenager is considered unfortunate, but not unusual; where wandering onto the wrong block or even just standing on your own front porch can mean putting yourself at risk," Michelle Obama told the Chicago crowd, according to a transcript provided by the White House.
"Those are the odds that so many young people are facing in this city –- young people like Hadiya Pendleton, whose funeral I attended back in February. And we all know Hadiya’s story. She was 15 years old, an honor student at King College Prep. And she came from a good family -– two devoted parents, plenty of cousins, solid godparents and grandparents, an adoring little brother. The Pendletons are hardworking people. They’re churchgoing folks. And Hadiya’s mother did everything she could for her daughter. She enrolled her in every activity you could imagine -– cheerleading, majorettes, the praise dance ministry -– anything to keep her off the streets and keep her busy. "And as I visited with the Pendleton family at Hadiya’s funeral, I couldn’t get over how familiar they felt to me. Because what I realized was Hadiya’s family was just like my family. Hadiya Pendleton was me, and I was her. But I got to grow up, and go to Princeton and Harvard Law School, and have a career and a family and the most blessed life I could ever imagine.
"And Hadiya? Oh, we know that story. Just a week after she performed at my husband’s inauguration, she went to a park with some friends and got shot in the back because some kid thought she was in a gang. Hadiya’s family did everything right, but she still didn’t have a chance. And that story -– the story of Hadiya’s life and death –- we read that story day after day, month after month, year after year in this city and around this country."
Really Mrs. Obama? You really think that you are similar to a girl who was the victim of serious gun violence in a city, which you call home? How is it that you can feel comfortable standing on that stage, preaching those words, when you and your husband have done nothing but hurt that city. By supporting Rahm Emanuel you have doomed your hometown. The city with the highest gun control measures has some of the worst gun crime. Is it really working? Stop preaching gun control if it isn’t working.
