President Donald Trump and numerous journalists slammed left-wing CBS News reporter Weijia Jiang on Monday over her behavior during the White House Coronavirus Task Force news conference.First, Jiang falsely suggested that Trump delayed widespread testing to cover-up the extent of the coronavirus testing in the U.S. so he could reopen the economy.The Washington Post and The New York Times had reported already that the delay in testing came from manufacturing errors at the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) where the tests were accidentally contaminated and testing was delayed as a result for weeks.Jiang also suggested that Trump was trying to open the economy for political reasons, which completely ignores the fact that tens of millions of Americans have lost their jobs, some are struggling to feed their families, and suicides are projected to skyrocket.WATCH:Video: Disenguous, pathetic stuff from @CBSNews's @Weijia Jiang, questioning the President's testing motives as suppressing them so as to tamp down case numbers and death tolls and then suggest he's playing politics with reopening state economies while Democratic governors aren't pic.twitter.com/acjiINrXxX— Curtis Houck (@CurtisHouck) May 11, 2020Jiang later suggested that Trump’s desire to be the best in the world at testing was a bad thing because of the number of Americans who are dying every day from the coronavirus.Trump said to ask China that question, to which Jiang, who describes herself as “Chinese born” in her Twitter bio, tried to turn Trump’s statement into a racial incident.WATCH:Video: @CBSNews's @Weijia Jiang came back for round two, bashing Trump for talking about testing like it's a "global competition" when so many are dying. Trump replies that she should ask China that question. So the media want Trump to ramp up testing, then hit him when he does?! pic.twitter.com/YYF13b3JrS— Curtis Houck (@CurtisHouck) May 11, 2020Surprisingly, numerous journalists called out Jiang’s antics at the news conference.Mediaite reporter Colby Hall tweeted: “If Trump had never before mentioned China in context of the coronavirus, then his ‘Ask China’ to an Asian reporter might be considered unfairly racialized. But calling it out as “racist” seems an irresponsible reach.”If Trump had never before mentioned China in context of the coronavirus, then his “Ask China” to an Asian reporter might be considered unfairly racialized. But calling it out as “racist” seems an irresponsible reach.— Colby Hall (@colbyhall) May 11, 2020Fox News anchor Rob Schmitt tweeted: “Did she try to turn this into a race thing?”Did she try to turn this into a race thing? https://t.co/u9Ke0ijOOx— Rob Schmitt (@SchmittNYC) May 11, 2020Former White House Adviser Steven Cheung tweeted: “Weijia Jiang has managed to outdo Acosta at his own game of grandstanding at press conference for self-promotion/resistance RTs. How else do you think someone who has never broken a big/interesting story, gets a ton of Twitter followers in just a few months?”Weijia Jiang has managed to outdo Acosta at his own game of grandstanding at press conference for self-promotion/resistance RTs.How else do you think someone who has never broken a big/interesting story, gets a ton of Twitter followers in just a few months?— Steven Cheung (@CaliforniaPanda) May 11, 2020Breitbart Editor Joel Pollak tweeted: “Aside from @weijia’s ridiculous insinuation about racism, her early questions were also obnoxious. The first presumed @realDonaldTrump acted out of political motives; the second presumed Democrats do NOT have such motives. She also said it’s ‘politics’ to want the economy to grow.”Aside from @weijia's ridiculous insinuation about racism, her early questions were also obnoxious. The first presumed @realDonaldTrump acted out of political motives; the second presumed Democrats do NOT have such motives. She also said it's "politics" to want the economy to grow— Joel B. Pollak (@joelpollak) May 11, 2020Pollak added: “Does any sane person actually buy @weijia’s victim schtick? The idea @realDonaldTrump would only tell an Asian American reporter China is a problem is absurd. He’s been saying it to everyone for weeks. Impossible she actually believes what she was suggesting. Although, who knows.”Does any sane person actually buy @weijia's victim schtick? The idea @realDonaldTrump would only tell an Asian American reporter China is a problem is absurd. He's been saying it to everyone for weeks. Impossible she actually believes what she was suggesting. Although, who knows.— Joel B. Pollak (@joelpollak) May 11, 2020Jiang has a history of making unsubstantiated claims during the Trump era, including claiming that someone in the Trump administration called the coronavirus the “kung flu” to her face. Jiang refused to name who it was, and, when she was called out by White House Senior Adviser Kellyanne Conway, Jiang continued to refuse to identify the person. Jiang was also the reporter who claimed that there was a tape of Trump using the n-word, but she was never able to produce any evidence that it actually existed.The Daily Wire, headed by bestselling author and popular podcast host Ben Shapiro, is a leading provider of conservative news, cutting through the mainstream media’s rhetoric to provide readers the most important, relevant, and engaging stories of the day. Get inside access to The Daily Wire by becoming a member. 