           President Joe Biden didn't mention the border situation in his first joint address to Congress, but he's created a "disaster" there, former President Donald Trump said Thursday. "One thing is that he didn't discuss the border and the fact that tens of thousands of people are pouring into our country, many of them criminals, many of them people from jails, many of them doing acts that you don't even want to know about," Trump told Fox Business's Maria Bartiromo. "They're pouring into our country by the thousands at a level that's never been seen before and (the Biden administration is) doing absolutely nothing."
Meanwhile, Biden stopped the construction of the border wall that was one of Trump's signature agenda items, and the former president said the wall would have been completed "if I didn't get sued by Congress and the Democrats every single moment."
"We beat those cases," he said. "We built most of the wall, almost 500 miles of wall and all we have to do is close up certain areas that we had to keep open until we gained title, and they just don't want to finish it. I heard they will finish it but by the time they do that, it could go very quickly."
Biden also stopped Trump's remain in Mexico program, which required migrants to stay across the border from the U.S. until their asylum cases are profiled. "We had to win that and we won it and they gave it up," he said. "Now everybody is pouring into our country. It's out of control. It could destroy our country if it keeps going and the longer it goes, the harder it is to stop."
Meanwhile, the Border Patrol and agents with Immigration and Customs Enforcement are doing a great job, said Trump, and all Biden had to do with the border was "leave it alone."
"It was so good, the best it ever was," said Trump. "We had the best border we've ever had in history ... now it's a disaster. What a shame for our country. It will destroy our country."
The border crisis will get worse, he added, as "they're already banding together ... they're sending a lot of people. These aren't just great people, hard-working people coming, these are criminals in many cases. You wouldn't believe the percentage of drug dealers, rapists, human traffickers, these are — murderers, by the way. These are people coming into our country unabated, they are coming in at a level that nobody's ever seen before."
The Biden administration is also planning to send money to the Northern Triangle countries of Guatemala, El Salvador, and Honduras, said Trump, after he had stopped payment instead. "As soon as I stopped the money, they called me," he recalled. "I said you have to take back the criminals that are coming to our country from your country. They're your problem, not our problem."
He said Biden's plan to send over $300 million to the countries is "ridiculous" as "the drug czars and others will get it and people running the country will take it and it won't go to where it's meant to go."           © 2022 Newsmax. All rights reserved.         