        Vaccinated Americans can now breathe a big, deep sigh of relief. People who have had all their COVID-19 shots can go outside without wearing a mask unless they’re in large gatherings, the CDC said in updated guidance Tuesday. New York Gov. Andrew Cuomo said after the announcement that the state will immediately adopt the agency’s guidance, calling it “liberating.” Those who have received both doses of the Pfizer or Moderna immunizations, or the single-shot Johnson & Johnson vaccine, can go mask-free for small outdoor get-togethers — even if other attendees are not vaccinated, CDC director Dr. Rochelle Walensky said at a White House press briefing. “There are many situations where fully vaccinated people do not have to wear masks, particularly if they are outdoors,” Walensky said. Americans who are fully vaccinated will no longer need masks outdoors.Getty Images “Generally, for vaccinated people, outdoor activities without a mask are safe. However, we continue to recommend masking in crowded outdoor settings and venues such as packed stadiums and concerts.” Meanwhile a guidance chart released by the agency indicated that everyone, regardless of whether they have been vaccinated, can go outdoors without a face covering when walking, running or biking alone or with members of their household. The slightly confusing graphic also indicates that those who are unvaccinated can also be unmasked for small outdoor gatherings in the unlikely scenario that every other person there is fully inoculated.  
Walensky noted that the risk of coronavirus transmission goes up 20-fold from outdoor to indoor. During small indoor gatherings, people who are fully vaccinated can also be mask-free so long as only one other household is represented and no one else in the group is at a high risk for the virus, the agency has said. 
CDC Unvaccinated people should continue to wear masks at those gatherings, the agency said. And even fully vaccinated people should continue to wear masks in places such as indoor malls, the CDC said. President Biden said at a later press event that the eased guidance should help convince young people the need to get vaccinated, even if they are not the most vulnerable to COVID-19. “For those who haven’t gotten the vaccination yet, especially if you’re younger or think you don’t need it, this is another great reason to go get vaccinated now,” said the president — who walked to the podium in a face mask, even though he has been fully vaccinated and was not near other people. 
“Yes, vaccines are about saving your life, but also the lives of the people around you. But they’re also about helping you get us get back closer to normal in our living,” Biden said. “Getting together with friends, going into a park for a picnic without needing to mask up — we’re back to that place now, as long as you get vaccinated. So go get the shot.” In New York, masks had been mandatory outdoors for all people when they couldn’t keep 6 feet away from others. 
But Cuomo on Tusday hailed the relaxed restrictions — while cautioning people against becoming complacent. About 29% of Americans are fully vaccinated, data shows.Getty Images “New York has adopted that guidance, so that is going to go into effect in New York state, also. So we want to thank the CDC for that,” he said. “But I don’t want New Yorkers to get the wrong idea,” the governor added, noting continuing coronavirus fatalities in New York. “It’s not that all the news is good. … People will still die today from it. “Caution is still the word of the day.” Experts also cheered the eased restrictions. 
“It’s the return of freedom,” said Dr. Mike Saag, an infectious-disease expert with the University of Alabama and Birmingham. “It’s the return of us being able to do normal activities again. 
“We’re not there yet, but we’re on the exit ramp. And that’s a beautiful thing.” With Post wires   	