Credit...Doug Mills/The New York TimesNov. 8, 2013WASHINGTON — President Obama was seething. Two weeks after the disastrous launch of HealthCare.gov, Mr. Obama gathered his senior staff members in the Oval Office for what one aide recalled as an “unsparing” dressing-down.The public accepts that technology sometimes fails, the president said, but he had personally trumpeted that HealthCare.gov would be ready on Oct. 1, and it wasn’t.“If I had known,” Mr. Obama said, according to the aide, “we could have delayed the website.”Mr. Obama’s anger, described by a White House that has repeatedly sought to show that the president was unaware of the extent of the website’s problems, has lit a fire under the West Wing staff. Senior aides are racing to make sure the website is fixed by the end of the month as they confront the political fallout from presidential promises, now broken, that all Americans who liked their existing health care plans could keep them.Inside the White House, there is anxiety that if the health care problems are not righted, they could imperil the rest of Mr. Obama’s presidency, especially as criticism grows that the president misled consumers about the plan. Mr. Obama sought to tamp down that criticism by apologizing in an interview with NBC News on Thursday. “I am sorry that they, you know, are finding themselves in this situation, based on assurances they got from me,” the president said.Internally, Denis R. McDonough, the White House chief of staff, is in charge of damage control. He leads a health care conference call at 7 p.m. daily, just before a written update on the broken website is inserted into the briefing book that is delivered to his boss in the White House residence. Mr. McDonough is also the primary conduit to angry Democratic lawmakers who are seeking to delay parts of the law and extend the enrollment period until the problems are fixed.Still, Mr. McDonough has insisted that other work continue as the White House struggles to find a balance between operating in perpetual crisis mode and moving on with the rest of Mr. Obama’s agenda.So daily “check-in” sessions on the push for an immigration overhaul still happen every morning. There are regular West Wing meetings on transportation, college affordability and a new farm bill. Mr. Obama spoke about increasing exports in a speech at the Port of New Orleans on Friday, and he is planning a trip next week to talk about the economy.“People expect us to fix the damn website,” a senior White House adviser said. “But they want us to move on, and stay focused on improving the economy.”Some Democrats close to the White House, however, think that the administration is not sufficiently panicked by the health care problems and urgently needs to step up its response. They say that the president and his staff do not recognize the full threat to his legacy, and they worry that Kathleen Sebelius, the secretary of health and human services, is not equipped to pull the administration out of the morass.“They are going to have to start thinking about some options,” said one Obama ally familiar with internal operations at the White House. “They need to get ahead of it somehow.”Geoffrey Garin, a top Democratic pollster with close ties to the administration, said that although “it is not in their nature to panic,” White House aides “understand that panic elsewhere can create its own vortex,” especially among Democratic lawmakers who face re-election next year.“I’m livid that this screw-up actually plays into the hands of the critics,” said Representative Gerald E. Connolly, Democrat of Virginia, referring to Republican plans to use the bungled health care rollout as ammunition in 2014.Pressure to demonstrate visible action helped lead the president to appoint Jeffrey D. Zients, the former head of the Office of Management and Budget, to orchestrate the website’s repair. Working with private-sector technology whiz kids out of a makeshift “war room” in Herndon, Va., Mr. Zients has pledged a workable website by the end of the month.“I think they do realize that this is Defcon 1,” said one close outside adviser to the White House.Other allies of the president are urging the White House not to let Mr. Obama get swallowed up by the health care issue the way that the BP oil spill crisis in the summer of 2010 pushed aside virtually everything else.“They have made a strategic decision that they can’t let this become like BP — the only story out there forever,” said one Democratic ally who has talked with senior White House staff members in recent days. “There are other things that they are going to push forward.”The White House may be more optimistic than many outside Democrats in part because it has been through so many other political sieges. Aides to the president compare the dire commentary in Washington to similar episodes in which lawmakers, consultants and journalists predicted lasting political damage only to see the furor of the moment eventually fade.“I think people are appropriately concerned, but there’s a sense that things will get fixed quickly,” said a former White House official who stays in touch with colleagues.The administration said Friday that consumers would be unable to see if they are eligible for insurance subsidies while computers of the Internal Revenue Service are taken down for routine maintenance from Saturday night to early Tuesday. The federal and state insurance exchanges check I.R.S. databases to verify the incomes of people applying for subsidies.Plenty of finger-pointing remains about how the situation developed so badly. Aides said the president did not believe that anyone had purposely deceived him or his top advisers, but they have concluded that some of the people working in the trenches on the website were not forthcoming about the problems.At the same time, the White House trusted its own policy and political teams rather than bringing in outsiders with more experience putting in place something as technically challenging as HealthCare.gov and the infrastructure to support it.Officials at the federal Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services repeatedly expressed doubts that the computer systems for the federal exchange would be ready on time, but they said that neither they nor their contractors had recommended a delay in opening the exchange. Political and policy teams at the White House insisted on pushing ahead without delay, they said.On Friday, Representative Darrell Issa, Republican of California and chairman of the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, issued a subpoena to a senior administration official, Todd Park, requiring him to testify at a hearing next week on the rollout of the president’s health care law. Mr. Park is Mr. Obama’s top technology adviser and helped build an earlier version of the website.The criticism from outside the White House gates has added to the frustration among aides. So far, no one appears likely to be fired as a result of the health care problems.But aides said they did not expect Mr. Obama to let up on his staff any time soon. In the interview on Thursday, Mr. Obama hesitated to guarantee that the health care website would be working smoothly by the end of the month. His tone suggested that he would not take kindly to another surprise.“I’ve been burned already with a website,” he said.