    'The president should honor the commitment,' Clinton says. President Bill Clinton — the man President Barack Obama once dubbed his “Secretary of Explaining Stuff” — once again has some explaining of his own to do with the Obama White House.  In an interview released Tuesday, Clinton called for a fix to the Affordable Care Act that would put an end to the wave of insurance cancellations that have been a public relations disaster for the White House and prompted Obama to apologize last week for having repeatedly assured Americans that they could keep their insurance if they liked it.  Clinton’s endorsement of legislation to address the cancellation issue again put the former president in a place Obama had refused to go — a familiar spot for the Oval Office’s current occupant.  ( Also on POLITICO: Bill Clinton: Obama should keep promise)  On issues ranging from the debt ceiling fight to Syria to rhetoric towards the rich, Clinton has parted company with the White House party line — often at crucial times that leave the current president in a tough spot and exacerbate tensions that date back to the 2008 campaign.  “I personally believe, even if it takes a change to the law, the president should honor the commitment the federal government made to those people and let them keep what they got,” Clinton said during a discussion of Obamacare problems in an interview with Carlos Watson on the web site Ozymandias. The former president did defend the overall impact of the law — but in backing the idea of changing it to address canceled health policies, he got on board with an approach Obama has yet to embrace.  At Tuesday’s press briefing, White House Press Secretary Jay Carney downplayed the notion of any disagreement between Clinton and Obama — telling reporters the former president was still Obamacare’s “explainer-in-chief. However, the spokesman carefully sidestepped the question of whether the two men share views on possible solutions.  ( Also on POLITICO: HHS to Obamacare website shoppers: Please come back)  “You’ve heard the president address this very issue,” Carney said, pointing to Obama’s comment to NBC last week that he was working “to make sure that nobody is put in a position where their plan’s been cancelled [and] they can’t afford a better plan, even though they’d like to have a better plan.”  However, Carney would not commit to any particular legislative option or even say that legislation of some sort was necessary.  “We haven’t announced any potential fixes or moves that we might be able to make to address this problem,” the press secretary said.  It isn’t the first time Obama’s team has spent a news cycle explaining away their explainer-in-chief’s remarks. During last year’s presidential race, Clinton angered the Obama team by describing likely GOP nominee Mitt Romney’s business record as “sterling” just as Obama and his allies were trying to paint Romney as a heartless corporate raider during his time at Bain Capital.  ( WATCH: 7 quotes on Obamacare glitches)  And at a closed-press event in June of this year, the former president took issue with Obama’s cautious Syria policy, saying that Obama or any president risks looking like “a total fool” if they heed opinion polls showing Americans fearful of any new entanglement in the region.  The recently-published book Double Down digs into the Obama-Clinton tensions in detail, reporting that after the pair golfed together in a patch-it-up effort in 2011, Obama said: “I like him…in doses.”  In an interview last week, Obama himself spoke about trying to address the cancellation problem, but stopped short of backing tweaks to the law.  “Obviously, we didn’t do a good enough job in terms of how we crafted the law. And, you know, that’s something that I regret. That’s something that we’re going to do everything we can to get fixed,” Obama told NBC.  ( Also on POLITICO: Dick Durbin: Obamacare line needed clarification)  Asked about the pending legislation, the president demurred.  “We’re looking at a range of options,” he said. Last week, Obama aides also pointedly declined to support a legislative option, responding with boilerplate when asked about a bill Sen. Mary Landrieu (D-La.) offered on the matter.  “Suffice it to say that the president is determined to address some of the challenges from this law,” spokesman Josh Earnest told reporters on Air Force One Friday. “The president has said for years now that he is open to working with members of Congress that have a genuine interest in trying to strengthen the Affordable Care Act. That’s been true for years now, and it’s true today.”  ( PHOTOS: 10 Sebelius quotes about Obamacare website)  On Tuesday, Carney would not pass judgment on Landrieu’s proposal, which picked up a major new supporter later in the day: Sen. Dianne Feinstein (D-Calif.) However, Carney did criticize another bill on the subject offered by Rep. Fred Upton (R-Mich.)  “What is not an effective fix is one that’s envisioned on the Hill by some legislation that would simply tell insurers they can sell substandard plans to anybody who might purchase them,” Carney said. “We do not see that as fixing the problem. We see that as throwing the baby out with the bathwater.”  Experts said addressing the wave of cancellations through legislation or administrative changes would be difficult, in part because some old plans are set to end in a little more than six weeks and also because insurers have made pricing decisions based on the pool of individuals they expect in new plans.  “I think it’s extraordinarily difficult to do that, if not impossible…..just from a purely logistical, practical standpoint,” said Sabrina Corlette of Georgetown University’s Center for Health Insurance reforms. “These companies decided on course of action and got these [new] policies approved.”  Corlette said the best way to address the cancellations issue would be to get the Obamacare website working better, since many whose plans are ending can get better insurance at a similar or lower price through federal-government-run exchanges.  ”The most important thing to do is to allow people to see what their options are,” she said.  Elsewhere in the interview with Watson, Clinton described one of the key problems with Obamacare — the gap in support to help some low-income Americans get insurance under the new system — as unfixable by the administration.  That quirk stems from the Supreme Court’s ruling that states could not be forced to accept Medicaid-related changes under the new law. Seven justices backed that part of the court’s decision, including five Republican-appointed justices, one nominated by Obama and another nominated by Clinton.  Aides to Hillary Clinton did not respond to a request for comment about whether Bill Clinton’s views reflect her own.  They come at a time when it seems increasingly likely that Hillary Clinton, who’s said she’s considering running for president in 2016, will have to open up some daylight with Obama on specific issues.  It’s not at all clear that Bill Clinton was being wily — if anything, most people interpreted it as the latest instance of the former president freelancing on issues, something he’d mostly foregone during her years at the State Department.  And few Democrats believe the remarks will put fresh pressure on Hillary Clinton herself to give her own views — if anything, they provide distance for her from Obama on the issue. And the comments also give cover to congressional Democrats who are running in difficult races next year, with Republicans drilling down on Obamacare as an issue.  Putting the best face on the latest Clinton-Obama divergence, Jay Carney noted Tuesday that Bill Clinton’s overall take on Obamacare was positive.  “The big lesson is that we’re better off with this law than without it,” the spokesman said, quoting Clinton.  -Maggie Haberman contributed to this report 
