    President Obama needs to rebuild confidence in the law. | REUTERS President Barack Obama will launch a coordinated campaign Tuesday by the White House, congressional Democrats and their outside allies to return attention to why the Affordable Care Act passed in the first place.  After two months of intense coverage of the botched HealthCare.gov rollout, the president will host a White House event kicking off a three-week drive to refocus the public on the law’s benefits, senior administration officials told POLITICO.  The White House will take the lead in emphasizing a different benefit each day until the Dec. 23 enrollment deadline for Jan. 1 coverage. The daily message will be amplified through press events and social media by Democratic members of Congress, the Democratic National Committee, congressional campaign committees and advocacy organizations, officials said.  ( Also on POLITICO: Full health care policy coverage)  The fresh push is an attempt to get back to the game plan that Democrats wanted to pursue before the faulty website forced them into full-time damage control. The president needs to rebuild confidence in the law among the public and his Democratic allies on Capitol Hill, who have threatened to roll back aspects of Obamacare if the insurance marketplace didn’t improve quickly — and refocus attention on what would be lost if it were repealed.  Now that the website appears to be mostly functional, the West Wing thinks it has the ability to return to sales mode.  “Healthcare.gov met our self-imposed November 30th deadline and even as we continue to make improvements to the website, we’ll also remind the public about how the Affordable Care Act is already making a positive difference in the lives of millions of Americans today,” said Josh Earnest, a White House spokesman. “The benefits of these consumer protections will only accumulate in the weeks and months ahead.”  ( POLITICO Magazine: How the media missed the two biggest Obamacare screw-ups)  Obama won’t declare the website fixed during Tuesday’s event. White House officials acknowledge HealthCare.gov still isn’t working as smoothly as it should, and that this renewed messaging push will run alongside efforts to make further repairs to the insurance marketplace and to target key populations for enrollment.  But he will return to a theme he first pursued in October: Obamacare is more than a website.  “What the White House is doing is what the White House had hoped they would spend the last two months doing, which is going out, selling the law, selling the benefits of the law,” said a former Obama adviser who framed the shift as a sign of White House confidence. “The fact that they feel comfortable doing that is a healthy sign for the president but also for the long-term benefits of Obamacare.”  Republicans aren’t expected back down from their campaign to weaken the law, and officials said they have been preparing for the Democratic offensive.  “Democrats will spend the next year promising to ‘fix’ ObamaCare, but they’ve already lost all credibility with voters,” said Brad Dayspring, spokesman for the National Republican Senatorial Committee, which has already cut a web ad aimed at vulnerable Democrats that concludes with the message: “They can’t be trusted to keep their promises.”  ( PHOTOS: 12 Democrats criticizing the Obamacare rollout)  The focus on Obamacare benefits is a political necessity for congressional Democrats, the large majority of whom will face voters in less than a year. Democrats wrote and passed the law in the face of unified Republican opposition, and if voters aren’t aware of the law’s upside — or can’t remember it amid all the problems with the rollout — Democrats will be holding onto an anchor rather than a buoy.  Democrats in the White House and on Capitol Hill say that in order to get back on offense on Obamacare, they have to draw a two-sided picture: Democrats delivering benefits on one side, and Republicans trying to deny them on the other. That, one party operative said, is what polling says will help them win. Instead, Democrats have spent the past two months blaming a president of their own party for the deficiencies of a law that they own.  Now, Democratic leaders are welcoming the renewed White House push.  “The consequences of Republican repeal are exactly the case that we need to be making — because Republican repeal would take us backward to a broken system that hurts too many Americans — like forcing millions of seniors to pay $1,200 more for their prescription drugs,” said Rep. Steve Israel (D-N.Y.), chairman of the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee. “Every poll tells us that when we make that case, voters choose Democrats.”  On Wednesday, the White House and Democratic allies will focus on how Americans are paying less for preventative care under Obamacare. On Thursday, they’ll highlight that people with preexisting conditions can no longer be charged more or denied coverage. And on Friday, they’ll emphasize the slowing growth in health care costs.  ”We are able to hit reset on the conversation,” said Lori Lodes, senior vice president of the liberal Center for American Progress Action Fund. “We have to make sure people understand how the law will benefit them.” Follow @politico The Democratic strategy on what could be an Achilles’ heel for the party in next year’s midterm elections is reminiscent of the way Republicans braced themselves two years ago for attacks on their plans to convert Medicare into a system of limited subsidies for seniors to purchase insurance plans.  After getting hammered for years on the topic, Republicans determined they were better off fighting for their plans than hiding from them. Even if they didn’t win majority approval, battling to anything near a draw on the issue would be a victory, the thinking went. So they went on offense, airing ads accusing specific Democrats of “bankrupting Medicare” because they weren’t willing to redesign the program.  Similarly, Democrats own Obamacare. There is no way for them to create distance with the law, so Democrats needs to embrace it and try to define it on their terms, party officials said Monday.  The White House has been holding daily communications calls with House Democratic leadership aides, and will begin holding daily calls with Senate Democratic leadership aides, Hill officials said.  In a memo obtained by POLITICO, Senate Democratic leaders urged their caucus last week to go the offense and suggested five “action items:” collect stories of people who “got covered” under Obamacare; collect “Thank you ACA” stories; launch a “#GotCovered” online campaign; promote neighborhood enrollment; and release a report on the consequences of release.  In conjunction with its partners at the White House and the congressional Democratic campaign committees, the Democratic National Committee is launching what it bills as a sustained campaign — into next year’s midterm election — to drive home the contrast.  That will start with the launch of a website Tuesday that details how certain provisions of the law are already benefiting consumers and what those people will lose if the law is repealed. For example, Democrats will argue that Republicans would strip people with preexisting conditions of their health insurance because the ACA guarantees them access to coverage.  The DNC also plans to communicate that message on a state-by-state basis.  Mo Elleithee, the DNC’s communications director, said there’s a “real choice” between fixing and strengthening the law and working to repeal it, particularly putting enough stock in its demise to shut down the government over its continuation.  “That is a contrast that we are going to drive home every single day between now and the election,” Elleithee said.  For their part, Republican leaders have sought to tamp down the repeal caucus in their own ranks and make clear that they don’t intend to shut the government down again. Moreover, while they’ve conducted countless official hearings into the website debacle — and they are beginning to look at other politically dicey questions for Democrats, such as the effects of cuts to Medicare Advantage — the GOP seems to have found a comfortable posture of needling the administration on the particulars of the implementation while abstaining from new or party-wide calls for rolling back popular provisions of the law.  The National Republican Senatorial Committee has a response to the Democrats ready to go in the form of a Web ad aimed at the four most vulnerable incumbent Senate Democrats in the country: Mary Landrieu, Mark Pryor, Mark Begich and Kay Hagan. It features the senators repeating versions of Obama’s promise that Americans who like their health care can keep it. “President Obama and Democrats intentionally deceived Americans,” the ad states.  But after the website performed relatively well Monday, Democrats are starting to exhale.  “They’re back into the sales mode, which is where they were prior to the rollout and it turned out to be a really good example of a message that was at odds with the reality of the experience,” the former Obama adviser said of the White House. “As long as the experience people are having with the website is such that it doesn’t drown out the message, this is what the White House should be doing and it’s what they wanted to be doing the whole time.” 
