Credit...Jim Wilson/The New York TimesJan. 11, 2013SANTA ROSA, Calif. — A California congressman leading a House Democratic task force on gun violence wrapped up a series of heated and packed town hall meetings on gun control here Thursday night, providing a glimpse into how the debate is resonating beyond Washington after last month’s massacre at Sandy Hook Elementary School in Newtown, Conn.Representative Mike Thompson, the congressman, who was recently appointed by Nancy Pelosi, the House minority leader, to seek new curbs on guns, said he would use information gleaned from three meetings this week in his district north of San Francisco to issue a set of recommendations early next month. His efforts join those by the White House and by politicians in states from New York to California to draft a legislative response to the mass killing even as the National Rifle Association and other gun rights supporters gather their forces.More than 200 people jammed into an auditorium at a government building here, spilling into the hallways and speaking for three hours. Just a few hours earlier, in Taft, a central California town, a 16-year-old high school student was arrested after entering a classroom armed with a shotgun and shooting another student, though not fatally.At the meetings, which were held in a heavily Democratic part of California, the state with the nation’s strictest gun regulations, advocates of gun rights clearly outnumbered supporters of stricter regulations. Many had responded to calls by the N.R.A. to attend the meetings and hewed to the organization’s talking points, trying to steer the debate to what they say is the real source of violence in America: mental health problems, a lack of personal responsibility, and violent video games and the news media.This week’s meetings ran smoothly and were generally free of the shouting and chaos that marked the town hall meetings surrounding the nation’s last polarizing debate, over health care in 2009.Still, gun rights supporters sometimes drowned out advocates of stricter regulations. Several warned of a coming civil war and said they were “willing to fight.” There were a few tense moments that Mr. Thompson — a Purple Heart recipient in the Vietnam War, a gun owner and hunter — defused.“Look, I have 30 seconds. I’ll do what I want, O.K.? You work for me; I pay your salary,” said one gun rights supporter to cries of “yeah!” from the audience as he stood before the congressman.“I’ll give you a buck and a half and pay you back right now,” the congressman told the man.Mr. Thompson, a Democrat and a member of the centrist Blue Dog Coalition, supports banning the kind of assault weapons used in the Connecticut shootings. But he cautioned that there is “no one bill that could be passed, no magic wand.” While he described Sandy Hook as “the worst gun tragedy” in his lifetime, he added that hundreds of Americans “have been killed with firearms” in the four weeks since the massacre.ImageCredit...Jim Wilson/The New York TimesOn Thursday, gun rights advocates here rejected any attempts to restrict access to high-powered guns. Echoing statements by the N.R.A., they stressed that the roots of the violence lay elsewhere, particularly in the lack of mental health care.A man from Santa Rosa strongly endorsed the N.R.A.’s call to arm school guards. “The only thing that can stop a bad guy with a gun is a good guy with a gun,” he said to both applause and boos from the audience.Like the N.R.A., other speakers blamed violent video games and the news media. “Every time you get somebody killing 10 people, somebody wants to kill 20 people,” one man said. “Get the media to quit naming the names.”Still, other self-identified gun owners expressed an openness to restrictions on assault weapons.“I know from personal experience that the N.R.A. does not speak for all gun owners,” one woman said. “The N.R.A. is mostly a lobbying organization and represents gun manufacturers, and is mostly motivated by profit. The time is now.”A man who described himself as a hunter and a former member of the N.R.A. said: “If you need more than three rounds when you’re hunting, you need to spend some time at the range before going out.”Several speakers accused “a tyrannical government” of trying to take away their guns, each time to loud applause. “It’s like you’re being controlled by a foreign operation or something, you’re voting for somebody other than the American people here,” one man told the congressman.“Don’t give that man a gun,” said a man in the audience.Another responded immediately, “He can have mine!"Supporters of greater gun control sometimes had a hard time making their points.“There is not a tyrannical government trying to take away your guns,” one man said. “Everybody needs to be respectful here and give everybody a chance to speak.”One woman, voicing support for a ban on assault weapons, said that gun rights supporters were trying to shift the debate away from guns. “I hear a lot about personal responsibility,” she said. “But what’s really being said is: ‘Trust no one but ourselves and our assault weapons. Every man for himself.’ That’s not a community. That can’t raise our children to be healthy. That’s an insane asylum.”