    
Smoking marijuana is 'not something I encourage,' he said. Citing his own experience as a kid with marijuana, President Barack Obama is weighing in on the legalization debate, saying it isn’t more dangerous than alcohol or different from cigarettes.  “I don’t think it is more dangerous than alcohol,” the president told The New Yorker’s David Remnick in a lengthy profile published Sunday.  “As has been well documented, I smoked pot as a kid, and I view it as a bad habit and a vice, not very different from the cigarettes that I smoked as a young person up through a big chunk of my adult life,” Obama said.  ( PHOTOS: 9 pols who talked pot)  However, when pressed whether marijuana is less dangerous than alcohol, Remnick notes that the president, after pausing, said it was “in terms of its impact on the individual consumer.”  Nevertheless, the president said he has warned his daughters of the drug.  “It’s not something I encourage, and I’ve told my daughters I think it’s a bad idea, a waste of time, not very healthy,” the president said.  An issue that does concern the president is the incarceration rates of minorities and those in poverty from marijuana.  “Middle-class kids don’t get locked up for smoking pot, and poor kids do,” he said.  ( PHOTOS: Pols who dropped the F-bomb)  Obama noted the hypocrisy of individual users receiving long sentences while those who wrote the laws “have probably done the same thing.”  As for the legalization of marijuana in Colorado and Washington state, Obama said, “It’s important for it to go forward.”  “It’s important for society not to have a situation, in which a large portion of people have at one time or another broken the law and only a select few get punished,” the president said.  The president did say that those who claim legalization will solve a slew of other problems are “overstating the case,” and that the new laws in Colorado and Washington state will be a challenge and could lead to tougher debates on harder drugs down the road.  “You do start getting into some difficult line-drawing issues. If marijuana is fully legalized and at some point folks say, ‘Well, we can come up with a negotiated dose of cocaine that we can show is not any more harmful than vodka,’ are we open to that? If somebody says, ‘We’ve got a finely calibrated dose of meth, it isn’t going to kill you or rot your teeth,’ are we OK with that?” the president said. 
