    TRENTON, N.J. — Amid swirling snow and scandal, Gov. Chris Christie was sworn in for a second term Tuesday, delivering a wideranging speech that called for Democrats and Republicans to eschew partisanship to serve the citizens of New Jersey.  Christie did not directly address the George Washington Bridge traffic jam scandal and subsequent controversies that have fueled partisan warfare in the state and beyond, setting forth instead an ambitious agenda and pledging he would “not let up” in making the government work.  “I have had no greater honor in my life than having twice been elected by my fellow citizens to be the governor of the state where I was born and raised,” the Republican said. “With that honor come solemn obligations — to make the hard decisions, to raise the uncomfortable topics, to require responsibility and accountability, to be willing to stand hard when principles are being violated and to be willing to compromise to find common ground with all of our people.”  ( Also on POLITICO: Christie gala canceled due to weather)  Christie has long been considered a possible GOP presidential front-runner for 2016, but his shot at the White House has been thrown off course by the controversies that have emerged in recent weeks.  Earlier this month, several of his aides and allies were implicated in an apparent scheme to cause traffic jams near the busy bridge as part of an alleged political vendetta. More recently, a Democratic mayor accused the Christie administration of withholding Hurricane Sandy relief funds because she wouldn’t approve a development project, one of several allegations of payback politics surfacing from Democrats in the past several weeks. Lawmakers in the Democratic-controlled state Legislature are now pursuing investigations tied to the controversies.  Christie’s speech Tuesday was held indoors at the ornate Trenton War Memorial. The two-story auditorium played host to a well-heeled and enthusiastic crowd — many attendees were decked out in Republican red — but the venue was by no means packed as an East Coast snowstorm hit, and the upper tier of the room held many empty seats.  ( QUIZ: How well do you know Chris Christie?)  Christie, typically brimming with Jersey bravado, delivered a more subdued than usual address that clocked in at about 15 minutes. But he still triumphantly highlighted the challenges his state has faced and overcome, including Hurricane Sandy.  “Each one of these challenges has been met by a new, unified force in public life — a New Jersey setting the tone for an entire nation. A tough New Jersey. A resilient New Jersey. A proud New Jersey,” he said.  A little more than two months ago, Christie won a landslide reelection victory, capturing 60 percent of the vote. In a jubilant speech on election night in November, he suggested, “Maybe the folks in Washington, D.C., should turn on their TV’s right now and see how it’s done,” further stoking speculation about his presidential ambitions.  On Tuesday, in softer tones, he echoed similar themes.  “We cannot fall victim to the attitude of Washington, D.C.,” he said. “The attitude that says ‘I am always right and you are always wrong.’ The attitude that puts everyone into a box they are not permitted to leave. The attitude that puts political victories ahead of policy agreements. The belief that compromise is a dirty word.”  Christie also referenced the broad support he received in winning a second term, including among minority communities that generally don’t back Republicans.  “The people have definitively set the course for the next four years,” he said, adding, “It was the largest and loudest voice of affirmation that the people of our state have given to any direction in three decades. Suburbanites and city dwellers. African-Americans and Latinos. Women and men. Doctors and teachers. Factory workers and tradesmen. Republicans and Democrats and Independents.”  In the speech, he nodded to a recent high-profile example of bipartisan agreement in the Garden State, reached before the “Bridgegate” scandal hit: his signing of the New Jersey DREAM Act, designed to aide undocumented young people hoping to attend college.  “As we saw in December regarding the DREAM Act, we can put the future of our state ahead of the partisans who would rather demonize than compromise,” he said. “As your governor, I will always be willing to listen, as long as that listening ends in decisive action for the people counting on us.”  In thanking his supporters, Christie made a promise: “I will not let up, I will insist we work together and I will make this government truly work for those who pay for it.”  He called for education reform, boosting economic growth and reforming approaches to drug sentencing by challenging the notion that “incarceration is the cure of every ill caused by drug abuse.” And in a possible swipe at liberal nearby New York, he said, “Let’s be different than our neighbors. Let’s put more money in the pockets of our middle class by not taking it out of their pockets in the first place.”  Christie, the current chairman of the Republican Governors Association, has denied any personal role in the traffic jam scandal and has fired or distanced himself from those apparently involved. His team also has pushed back hard against the allegations that it played favorites with hurricane relief funds.  But lawmakers in the state Assembly and Senate are investigating the traffic scandal, while the U.S. attorney’s office is looking into that and the allegations involving hurricane relief funds. Christie also has ordered an internal review of what happened in his office.  The scandals have raised questions about Christie’s temperament as well as his judgment in picking staff, and how the fallout will affect his long-term political future is uncertain.  He earned high marks in some corners for a news conference he held early on in the traffic scandal in which he repeatedly apologized while announcing whom he had fired. But his unfavorability rating has doubled in the past year, clocking in at a 34 percent in a Pew Research Center-USA Today poll released on Monday. He earned a 38 percent favorable rating in that poll.  As if to symbolize the difficulty Christie is facing, even the weather was working against him Tuesday: his evening gala celebration on Ellis Island, which was set to include more than 1,100 guests, was canceled due to the heavy snow. Hours after the swearing in, he declared a state of emergency due to the weather. 
