VideoThe Howard County police chief, William J. McMahon, addressed the news media about the deadly shootings at the Mall in Columbia.Jan. 26, 2014As the police investigated the shooting at a shopping mall in Maryland where three people died on Saturday to try to determine what prompted the violence, more information came to light on Sunday about the suspected gunman. The police identified the gunman as Darion Marcus Aguilar, a 19-year-old who lived in College Park, Md., with his mother. He had graduated from high school last year and was working at a Dunkin’ Donuts store about a mile from his home. Mr. Aguilar had been at work during the day on Friday and was scheduled to work at the store at 5:30 a.m. on Saturday, but he never arrived, company officials said. ImageCredit...Howard County PoliceHis mother reported him missing on Saturday around 1:40 p.m., according to the Prince George’s County police. An investigator came to their home and read something in the young man’s journal that caused him to be concerned for Mr. Aguilar’s safety, the police said. As part of the missing person investigation, the police tracked his phone and found that it was inside the mall. The investigator did not know that Mr. Aguilar’s body had been found inside a store at the mall near two other bodies. The authorities believe that Mr. Aguilar killed two employees at Zumiez, a skateboarding store, at the Mall in Columbia before he committed suicide. Near his body, there was a Mossberg 12-gauge shotgun, a large amount of ammunition and inside a backpack, two homemade explosive devices. On Sunday evening, the police said they had interviewed Mr. Aguilar’s family and friends and still could not determine a motive for the shooting. They released his driver’s license picture in an attempt to gather additional information from the public. ImageCredit...Evan Vucci/Associated PressThe police said that Mr. Aguilar did not have a criminal record and that there was no known relationship between him and the victims. In his journal, the police said, he had written about being unhappy with his life. Friends and family mourned the deaths of the two store employees: Brianna Benlolo and Tyler Johnson. Ms. Benlolo, 21, was an assistant manager at the store and had a young son. Mr. Johnson, 25, who had worked at the store since November, was active in a local 12-step program and visited a high school to warn students about the dangers of drugs. Mr. Johnson was “a great young man” who had been through a lot for someone so young, said his friend Paige Kendrix. He had been public about his struggle with drugs and tried to be an example so that teenagers “didn’t have to go down the road he did,” she said. “If there is one person in this world that didn’t deserve it, it was him,” she said.Ms. Benlolo was from Florida and had attended a Paul Mitchell cosmetology school in Maryland. She recently posted photos on Instagram from a trip with her son to the National Air and Space Museum in Washington and another of her working at the store on New Year’s Day.ImageCredit...Jewel Samad/Agence France-Presse — Getty ImagesThe mall, between Baltimore and Washington, is scheduled to reopen Monday at 1 p.m., and two memorials will be set up to honor Ms. Benlolo and Mr. Johnson. The police locked down the sprawling mall in Columbia, Md., after the shooting. On Sunday, Ellis Cropper, a man who identified himself as a spokesman for the Aguilar family, said the family was mourning Mr. Aguilar’s death and trying to understand what happened. His mother also expressed sympathy for the other two families, Mr. Cropper said. Friends described Mr. Aguilar as a shy teenager who was generally happy. He had recently gotten a promotion at work and was planning to start school again next semester, Mr. Cropper said.He graduated from James Hubert Blake High School in Silver Spring, Md., last year, according to a Montgomery County Public Schools spokeswoman. Last February, he was admitted to Montgomery College, a community college, but he never registered for classes or attended the school, a spokeswoman for the college said. ImageCredit...Jonathan Hanson for The New York TimesHis mother said she did not believe that Mr. Aguilar knew Ms. Benlolo, as some online reports had suggested. Mr. Aguilar was so sensitive, Mr. Cropper said, that he stopped eating meat after watching a documentary on animal cruelty. “From that point on, he became a vegan,” Mr. Cropper said. “That’s the person he was.”A high school classmate, Tydryn Scott, said she was surprised when she learned that Mr. Aguilar was identified as the gunman. She said he seemed like a quiet, sweet person in her senior English class last year. “You just never know what’s going on with some people outside of school,” Ms. Scott said. But the authorities gave a different account of Mr. Aguilar. They said he had brought two homemade explosive devices to the mall, in addition to the shotgun and ammunition. Surveillance video showed him arriving around 10:15 a.m., an hour before the shooting. He was dropped off by a taxi and entered on the upper level, walking to the lower level before returning upstairs where the Zumiez store was. Mr. Aguilar had bought the shotgun legally in Montgomery County, Md., in December, the police said. He fired six to eight shots. Last year, Maryland passed sweeping restrictions on gun ownership, including a ban on new purchases of assault weapons and a 10-round limit on magazines. It was one of several states to pass such a measure after the shooting at Sandy Hook Elementary School in Connecticut, where 26 children and educators died. But the new law would not have affected Mr. Aguilar’s purchase. Maryland does not regulate the sale of shotguns or rifles, and no permit is required to buy one. 