    Some who follow the issue say Keystone remains a tough call for the administration. Green activists aren’t resigned to losing the Keystone battle. But Friday’s latest blow was yet another disappointment in their often strained relationship with President Barack Obama.  The new State Department report that discounted most of the environmental community’s warnings about the Keystone XL oil pipeline puts the final decision on the project closer to Obama’s desk, after years in which he’s been able to dodge rendering a verdict.  It all may come down to which Obama makes the final call: the president who declared in Tuesday’s State of the Union that “climate change is a fact” or the one who, in the same speech, touted an “all of the above” approach to energy policy — a phrase that environmentalists had specifically urged him to stop using.  ( Also on POLITICO: Greens suffer another Keystone setback)  This is also the same White House that picked health care over a giant cap-and-trade bill in 2010 but three years later launched the biggest-ever regulatory attack on carbon pollution from coal-burning power plants.  Adding to the tension for deep-pocketed, politically connected greens is the fact that Friday’s unwelcome message on Keystone came from a department led by one of their most passionate champions, Secretary of State John Kerry.  Some environmentalists fumed, while others looked for silver linings, including some additional language in the sprawling final document that could be used to bolster their arguments.  “It’s just a study; it doesn’t recommend a course of action,” said Kenny Bruno, a lead spokesman in the campaign against tapping Canadian oil sands. Pipeline critics, he said, have “the winds at our backs” because the decision is “no longer in the hands of lower-level bureaucrats in the State Department. It’s in the hands of climate champions Barack Obama and John Kerry.”  Sierra Club Executive Director Michael Brune said the analysis gives Obama and Kerry “everything” they need to reject the pipeline. “We are cautiously confident that he will make the right choice,” Brune said of Obama.  ( Also on POLITICO: Obama's options on Keystone)  The analysis is “just an input,” billionaire climate activist Tom Steyer said. “So we don’t have an answer yet, and the fight is far from over.”  But others denounced the entire review process so far as corrupt and flawed.  “This document will be seen by the entire environmental community — in which I certainly include myself — as a sham,” said Rep. Raul Grijalva (D-Ariz.). He was one of several Keystone opponents who complained about news reports in which oil industry groups or Canadian officials offered previews of what they had heard the study would say.  “The fact that the Canadian government and the oil industry were reportedly briefed on today’s news before Congress was given the courtesy of a heads-up speaks volumes,” Grijalva said. “It encourages the already widely held impression that the fix was in from the beginning. If the administration expects to avoid the lasting stink of having ignored every red flag in the book, it needs to explain itself.”  The added details in the final version will allow Obama and Kerry to use them as they see fit, said one former Obama administration official closely following the Keystone process.  “I think it would be wrong to conclude that this is a rubber stamp for the project and right to conclude it provides additional information that the administration will be looking at before a final decision is made,” the former official said. “The administration is looking to keep its options open here.”  ( MAP: Keystone XL pipeline)  Obama has offered some hints that he thinks both sides have overstated the impact of the Alberta-to-Texas oil pipeline, which the State Department study indicates will be neither a major environmental problem nor a powerhouse job creator. But by letting the decision linger for years, Obama has also allowed pipeline opponents to elevate its political significance — adding it to the holy trinity of green litmus tests alongside drilling in Alaska’s Arctic National Wildlife Refuge and saving the Pacific Northwest’s spotted owl.  “I don’t necessarily think that there’s a real climate change impact in this decision,” said another former administration official who worked on energy issues. “The oil is there. It’s going to be extracted. Its going to be sold to someone. By trying to frame this as a big political battle and a test of the president’s courage, I think it was a strategic miscalculation by the environmental community.”  Politically, though, some who follow the issue say Keystone remains a tough call for the administration. It plays green activists and Democratic donors against each other headed into this year’s midterm elections. And several party activists offered contrasting arguments for whether a pro-Keystone or anti-Keystone decision works more to the Democrats’ benefit.  The second former administration official said Obama would have reason to consider making a pro-Keystone decision now to take away a potent Republican talking point. Keystone has become “a dog whistle for their [GOP] base, probably because the environmental community made it one,” the ex-official said. But Chris Lehane, a longtime party operative who worked for Al Gore’s 2000 campaign and is now affiliated with Steyer’s anti-Keystone super PAC, said Obama would risk dampening midterm turnout among two critical Democratic voting demographics — Hispanics and under-30s — by permitting the pipeline. “If you’re talking about the raw politics of this, if you’re a Democrat and trying to maximize turnout, you have to look at which cohorts you’re trying to maximize,” he said.  Lehane also recalled Obama’s recent comments to The New Yorker’s David Remnick about a president having a chance to influence only one paragraph in the history books. “This would fall square in the type of paragraph the president was addressing in that conversation,” Lehane said.  Environmentalists say they aren’t conceding a loss quite yet.  “Is it politically easier for him to approve this thing? Maybe,” said Roger Ballentine, a former environmental adviser to Kerry and President Bill Clinton. “But I don’t think it’s politically hard to reject it.”  He argued that the need for a new pipeline to send Canadian oil to the Gulf Coast is unwarranted when U.S. oil production levels have topped exports for the first time since 1995.  “If I’m a senator and someone tries to beat me up on this, I say, ‘Look, what we should be doing is focusing on the infrastructure we need to responsibly develop,’” said Ballentine, now president of Green Strategies.  Obama is in a no-win situation as he weighs the appeals from greens, Republicans, industry and Canada, which is both a leading U.S. trading partner and “one of our best friends in the world,” said former State Department spokesman P.J. Crowley.  “The politics are complicated and to a large extent zero-sum,” Crowley said. “Which is why the administration is taking its time trying to manage a least-bad outcome.”  On the pipeline’s merits, people on both sides said the final State Department report left Obama some room to either kill or reject the project. For instance, the report said building Keystone is unlikely by itself to cause Canada to dramatically expand production from its western oil sands, increasing greenhouse gas emissions. That may happen — or not happen — for reasons besides the pipeline.  The analysis was clearly a disappointment to many pipeline critics, who wanted the State Department to deem the pipeline an outright climate and environmental hazard.  But pipeline opponents also offered differing interpretations on whether the report had softened the State Department’s past view that the project wouldn’t pose significant environmental harm.  “In this report, for the very first time, the State Department acknowledges a scenario in which the Keystone XL tar sands export pipeline dramatically increases carbon pollution,” said National Wildlife Federation CEO Larry Schweiger. “That’s a welcome and long overdue change, and it gives President Obama all the evidence he needs to reject Keystone XL.”  Climate activist Bill McKibben, a Vermont-based author spearheading the fight against the pipeline, was less optimistic. He said the report “reflects some grudging movement” by the State Department to recognize the environmental impact of the pipeline. “They’re at the point of saying night is late afternoon,” he said.  Meanwhile, at the State Department on Friday afternoon, Assistant Secretary Kerri-Ann Jones repeatedly told reporters, “Whether one pipeline specifically would affect the overall development of the oil sands, that specific answer is not in this document.” 
