    The ruling continues the march toward the demise of the use of race in higher education The Supreme Court’s decision upholding Michigan’s affirmative-action ban was far from a shock, but it generated considerable strife on the high court, producing five different opinions in which the justices traded charges and countercharges on the polarizing issues at stake.  Tuesday’s splintered, 6-2, ruling continued what appears to be a steady march toward the demise of the use of race in higher education and offered new insight into just how eager some justices are to accelerate — or resist — what appears to be an inexorable trend.  In the panoply of opinions, the justices assumed various roles. Some acted as rhetorical bomb throwers, either for left or right. Others sought to mediate and moderate — or perhaps just gave the appearance of doing so in order to calm others’ fears. And one liberal justice defected from his ideological cohorts, to their chagrin.  ( Also on POLITICO: The woman who killed affirmative action. Twice)  Here are five takeaways from the justices’ decision holding that voters have the right to implement bans on racial preferences in higher education, hiring and contracting:  1. It’s all about affirmative action — or not  Justice Anthony Kennedy’s announcement of the court’s ruling began in a defensive crouch, flatly denying that the decision was about affirmative action before anyone had the chance even to level the charge.  “It is important to note what this case is not about. It is not about the constitutionality, or the merits, of race-conscious admissions policies in higher education,” Kennedy wrote. “This case is not about how the debate about racial preferences should be resolved. It is about who may resolve it.”  Perhaps. But many of the other justices seemed unwilling or unable to cleanly separate the issues.  Justice Sonia Sotomayor’s 58-page dissent does a deep dive on affirmative action, including three charts from The New York Times and one from The Wall Street Journal showing how enrollment of African-American and Latino students in certain California and Michigan schools declined after race-based preferences were halted.  ( Earlier on POLITICO: SCOTUS upholds ban on affirmative action)  “These statistics may not influence the views of some of my colleagues,” Sotomayor wrote. Their desire to end affirmative action, she argued, “ignores the importance of diversity in institutions of higher education and reveals how little my colleagues understand about the reality of race in America.”  Sotomayor sounded like such an advocate for affirmative action that Chief Justice John Roberts wrote his own concurring opinion complaining about what he saw as transparent lobbying on the subject.  “The dissent devotes 11 pages to expounding its own policy preferences in favor of taking race into account in college admissions, while nonetheless concluding that it ‘do[es] not mean to suggest that the virtues of adopting race-sensitive admissions policies should inform the legal question before the Court,’” Roberts scoffed.  And Justice Antonin Scalia, joined by Justice Clarence Thomas, also felt compelled to throw in a few sharp words on affirmative action, noting Justice Sandra Day O’Connor’s 2003 observation that use of race in higher education “will no longer be necessary” in 25 years.  ( PHOTOS: 21 landmark SCOTUS rulings)  “Grutter’s bell may soon toll,” Scalia wrote, referring to that 2003 case. “The battleground for this case is not the constitutionality of race-based admissions — at least not quite.”  2. A win for ballot measures?  For decades the court has said that it judges all kinds of governmental enactments with the same yardstick, be they congressional or state legislation, city council ordinances, mayoral or police orders or ballot measures approved by voters.  But Kennedy’s core opinion in the Michigan case seems to exalt referenda as a kind of direct democracy that the courts should be particularly reluctant to disturb. That might be a problem for same-sex marriage opponents if a future Supreme Court challenge involves a state law or constitutional amendment enacted by voters.  “Michigan voters exercised their privilege to enact laws as a basic exercise of their democratic power,” Kennedy wrote. “Michigan voters used the initiative system to bypass public officials who were deemed not responsive to the concerns of a majority of the voters with respect to a policy of granting race-based preferences that raises difficult and delicate issues.”  ( PHOTOS: Who’s who on the Supreme Court)  Some analysts saw Kennedy’s celebration of referenda as notable because for decades many in the legal system viewed such enactments as particularly suspect because they could represent a kind of backlash spurred by ugly motives. Experts also pointed to Kennedy’s roots in California — a state that has long seen robust use of ballot measures.  “The Kennedy plurality opinion [makes] a measure passed by initiative seem more worthy of protection as an expression of a kind of pure majoritarianism — of what people really want,” said University of California at Irvine law professor Rick Hasen. “This doesn’t change the legal standards on judicial review of initiatives, but I do think it sets a mood that says there should not be suspicion of what the majority wants.”  “It looked like the court is saying this process should be given some deference,” said Bob Stern of the Center for Governmental Studies.  But Kennedy’s record of deferring to voters is a mixed one. In the case over California’s same-sex marriage ban, he stood with California voters at least as far as the right of initiative proponents to defend the measure in court. (Five of his colleagues disagreed, tossing the case on that procedural grounds.) And in 1996, Kennedy authored a 6-3 ruling striking down a constitutional amendment Colorado voters approved banning any policies giving privileges or protections on the basis of sexual orientation. 3. Kennedy at the helm on race  There is little doubt that Kennedy remains the central figure for the court when it comes to the increasingly constrained future of affirmative action. In the courtroom, he announced the court’s decision and was the only justice who spoke to defend it.  It’s a role similar to the one he played last year when he wrote the court’s opinion reviving a challenge to affirmative-action programs at the University of Texas.  “He is the median justice on affirmative action, ever since O’Connor’s retirement,” said Cornell law professor Mike Dorf. (Roberts remains the court’s key voice on race in the electoral process, authoring last year’s opinion knocking out a core provision in the Voting Rights Act.)  While liberals are often relieved that the court has yet to ban race-based preferences outright, Kennedy is often viewed with frustration because he insists the door is still open to the practice but never seems to find a real-world program that passes muster.  “He has never actually voted to uphold anything,” Dorf said. “In every case that actually comes before the court, he finds it impermissible.”  Still, Dorf said, Kennedy’s backing even for the idea of affirmative action has had significant impact, allowing state colleges and universities to keep such plans in force and giving lower courts the leeway to approve them.  4. Sotomayor’s moment  Sotomayor’s vigorous dissent, delivered from the bench, solidified her role as an unabashed defender of the use of race in higher education and as the court’s most vocal justice on those issues. She bluntly lectured her colleagues about their insensitivity to the continued role of race in American life.  “As members of the judiciary tasked with intervening to carry out the guarantee of equal protection, we ought not sit back and wish away, rather than confront, the racial inequality that exists in our society,” she declared in her dissent. “It is this view that works harm, by perpetuating the facile notion that what makes race matter is acknowledging the simple truth that race does matter.”  Sotomayor also seemed eager to skewer what she views as the privileged class and to do so in starkly racial terms.  “A white graduate of a public Michigan university who wishes to pass his historical privilege on to his children may freely lobby the board of that university in favor of an expanded legacy admissions policy, whereas a black Michigander who was denied the opportunity to attend that very university cannot lobby the board in favor of a policy that might give his children a chance that he never had and that they might never have absent that policy,” she wrote.  Sotomayor’s pointed opinion was joined by Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg. Some saw in the move a kind of passing of the baton from one liberal stalwart to another, given that a senior justice can choose to author a joint dissent.  “It’s significant that Ginsburg let her write it,” Dorf said. “For Sotomayor, this is sort of her issue.”  5. Breyer again shows his quirky (wobbly?) side  Breyer again demonstrated his ability to confound expectations with his one-man opinion siding with the court’s majority to preserve Michigan’s affirmative-action ban. He was the only Democrat-appointed justice to vote that way, although Justice Elena Kagan was recused and so did not reveal her views.  At oral arguments, Breyer is famous for posing obscure hypotheticals, raising concerns many consider tangential to the case at hand. Most of the time he joins up with his liberal colleagues when it comes time to write opinions, but in a significant number of cases he strays, joining the conservatives or striking out entirely on his own.  In a pair of 2005 cases on Ten Commandments displays, he found one outside the Texas Capitol constitutional and another at a Kentucky courthouse unconstitutional.  “He’s always a balancer,” Hasen said.  Breyer’s split-the-difference opinion Tuesday sought to distinguish the Michigan ban from other cases where the court disapproved a so-called restructuring of the political system in a way that disadvantaged minorities. Some saw his opinion as hair-splitting, but others saw respect for voters with whom Breyer clearly disagrees.  “He is really staking out his position as a guy who does sincerely care about leaving stuff to the democratic process,” Dorf said. “While both the majority and the dissent purport to say that, you have the sense they don’t really believe it.” 
