Credit...Diego Ibarra Sanchez for The New York TimesApril 24, 2014KABUL, Afghanistan — Three Americans were killed at a private hospital in Kabul on Thursday morning when an Afghan police officer turned his gun on them, officials said, in the latest in a string of attacks against Western civilians here.After a campaign of Taliban violence aimed at foreigners raised apprehensions before the presidential election this month, the latest attack seemed to have nothing to do with the insurgency. Rather, officials said the gunman appeared to be a police officer who reacted in the moment when he saw a small group of American visitors outside his guard post, raising fears of a new wave of so-called green-on-blue shootings spurred by deepening Afghan resentment.The shooting took place at Cure International Hospital, which specializes in the treatment of disabled children and women’s health issues. Afghan police officials said that one of the doctors there was hosting visitors from the United States who, after taking pictures together in front of the hospital, were headed inside when they were attacked.Among the dead was a pediatrician from Chicago, Dr. Jerry Umanos, who had volunteered at the Cure hospital for almost nine years, treating children and helping train Afghan doctors. There were few details about the other victims on Thursday night.Afghan officials identified the gunman, who was wounded, as a two-year veteran of the Kabul police force named Ainuddin, who had only recently been assigned to guard the hospital. Witnesses and officials said he fired on the Americans as they approached his security post at the building’s entrance, killing three and wounding a female doctor before entering the interior courtyard and seeking new targets. There were conflicting reports about whether other officers then shot him, or whether he turned his gun on himself. He was admitted at the Cure hospital as a patient.Spokesmen for the Taliban, usually quick to claim responsibility for attacks on Westerners, did not assert any involvement this time. Instead, the details seemed to speak to a growing alienation between Afghans and Americans here, as uncertainty about the relationship between their countries has deepened as troops prepare to withdraw this year.“The foreigners have been here too long,” said a man outside the hospital who gave his name as Fawad and said a female relative was in the Cure hospital undergoing surgery. “People are tired of them.”Less than three weeks ago, an award-winning photographer for The Associated Press, Anja Niedringhaus, a German citizen, was killed by a police officer at a checkpoint in eastern Afghanistan. Her colleague Kathy Gannon, a Canadian reporter who had covered Afghanistan and Pakistan for The Associated Press for decades, was also wounded in the attack. A month before that, a Swedish journalist was shot and killed in a heavily guarded area of Kabul.ImageCredit...Bernardo Barrios/Lawndale Christian Health Center, via Associated PressThe attacks are reminiscent of those by Afghan security forces against their Western allies that became a crisis two years ago. The violence, also known as insider attacks, threatened the military training mission at the heart of the American troop withdrawal scheduled for this year.But as international coalition soldiers have increasingly stuck to their bases, and as new strategies have been put in place to safeguard against insider attacks, such episodes have seemed to subside. Instead, foreign workers in Afghanistan have been singled out, although the number of Western civilians targeted is still small compared with the number of military deaths — and both together are greatly outstripped by Afghan civilian casualties in the war.Beyond the recent killings of journalists, a concerted effort by the Taliban to target locations that are popular with expatriates was evident before the presidential voting on April 5. An assault in January on a restaurant in central Kabul, the Taverna du Liban, left 21 people dead, most of them foreigners, and shootings at the luxury Serena Hotel last month killed nine. Such events have put the thousands of foreigners living in Kabul on high alert.The unpredictable nature of the violence has prompted some embassies to redouble their security efforts, and has led those living outside secure areas to limit their exposure.Friends and colleagues of Dr. Umanos said that he was keenly aware of the risks but was drawn to working with Afghans and helping to teach a new generation of doctors here.“He was a very good teacher and clinician,” Robert F. Werner, who for a time lived in the same house as Dr. Umanos in Afghanistan, said Thursday in a telephone interview. “And he also had a great sense of humor, so culturally, he just did well. The doctors loved working with him.”Mr. Werner, a health care administrator who now works in Memphis, said he had heard from many of Dr. Umanos’s Afghan colleagues since his death, including one who called him “our best friend.”Since Dr. Umanos earned his medical degree in 1982, he had cultivated a reputation as a compassionate physician in Chicago, where he practiced at the Lawndale Christian Health Center for more than 25 years.“We have lost a dear friend,” said James Brooks, the hospital’s chief ministry officer. “Our clinic is grieving right now. Our hearts are broken.”Dr. Umanos was one of the first doctors to join Lawndale after its founding and worked at first for about the same compensation he had earned while completing his residency at the Children’s Hospital of Michigan.VideoWitnesses describe the scene after three Americans were shot dead at a hospital in Kabul, Afghanistan, by an Afghan police officer.CreditCredit...Diego Ibarra Sanchez for The New York Times“Jerry clearly wanted to use his medical training where he could have the most impact,” Arthur Jones, Lawndale’s founding physician, said. “He was a talented guy. He could have worked as a pediatrician anyplace and drawn a much bigger salary.”After visiting Afghanistan in 2005, Dr. Umanos saw an acute need for doctors with his pediatric specialty, and he and his wife, Jan, decided to move to the country. He later began working at the Cure hospital, and also in a community health center in northern Afghanistan.Genial and with a strong interest in the clinical side of medicine, Dr. Umanos quickly emerged as a sought-after teacher in a place where medical education was often based on textbooks and the classroom, Mr. Werner said.“He was just someone who was completely genuine and humble, and he was there for all the right reasons, and people just saw that in him,” Mr. Werner said. “Humility breeds cultural sensitivity.”Throughout his time abroad, Dr. Umanos maintained his practice in Chicago, where he often treated the children of other employees at Lawndale. But his mother-in-law, Angie Schuitema, said she did not think Dr. Umanos harbored regrets about being away from his patients in the United States.“He loved what he was doing,” she said, “and he was where he wanted to be.”Cure International, a Christian organization, was started in 1998 in Kenya and now operates hospitals and programs in 29 countries. The organization focuses on health issues for which treatment is difficult to obtain in the developing world, including club foot, cleft palate and untreated burns, according to its website.On Thursday, a group of men whose female relatives were patients at the hospital gathered outside it. Some expressed fears that the hospital would be shut down, forcing Afghans to turn to poorly funded public ones.“This is so bad,” said Ahmad Shekib, a Kabul resident whose aunt had just delivered a baby. “We will lose this source of health services. These were good people who had left their families and had come all the way from U.S. to help Afghans. It is so shameful.”A car pulled up a short while later, and the driver was told by the police to leave the area. When they explained that an officer had shot and killed three foreigners, the driver replied, “Good for him that he killed the infidels.”But others here said the attack would harm the very people the foreigners were trying to help.“We will lose this source of proper health service,” said Mohammed Safar, from Ghazni Province, who idled by the entrance. “Who bears the brunt? Poor Afghans. Rich Afghans can afford taking their patients to Dubai and Europe. Where will we go?”