Under fire for an alleged sex scandal, the embattled Jerry Falwell Jr. has submitted his resignation as head of Liberty University, school officials said Tuesday – less than 24 hours after Falwell denied he was leaving the evangelical institution. Liberty's board of trustees accepted his resignation Tuesday, effective immediately, the university said in a statement, after receiving a resignation letter from Falwell late Monday night. His resignation marks an ignominious end to his 13-year run as Liberty president that began when his televangelist father who founded the university, The Rev. Jerry Falwell, Sr., died in 2007. Falwell also resigned from Liberty's board of directors.“I am so encouraged by the unity of Christ that I saw exemplified by our Board today," Liberty's Acting Board Chairman Dr. Allen McFarland said. "Liberty University’s future is very bright and in capable hands of leaders who are committed to being good stewards of what the Lord has entrusted!” More:Is Jerry Falwell Jr. out as president of Liberty University? Report: A daylong back-and-forth ends with him again saying he has resigned.His departure came after a dramatic public zig-zag on Monday between Liberty's board of trustees and Falwell, an ardent and early supporter of President Donald Trump. It began when Reuters published an interview Monday with a man who said he had a yearslong sexual relationship with the evangelical leader's wife, Becki Falwell, with her husband's consent and encouragement. Following that story, Falwell initially agreed to resign as president on Monday, then changed his mind after seeing media reports, the university said. He then told the Wall Street Journal late Monday that he had resigned after all.Falwell told the newspaper he decided to resign because he wants "what’s best for the university, and I don’t want to harm the future of the university.”Falwell called his resignation “a relief” in an interview with the Lynchburg-based newspaper The News and Advance on Tuesday, adding, “The quote that keeps going through my mind this morning is Martin Luther Ling Jr: ‘free at last, free at last, thank God almighty I’m free at last.“I see a role in other areas, I don’t know what it is yet but I’m not done,” he said. “This happened for a reason.”Liberty's executive committee and board of trustees met Tuesday morning. Falwell will receive severance compensation dictated by the terms of his contract, the university said. School officials did not disclose the amount. Falwell told the Washington Post he will receive $2.5 million over two years and then $8 million in retirement.“Our students are ready to be world changers as Champions for Christ," said Jerry Prevo, who will stay on as acting president. "Their spirit is strong as they look to the future. I intend to do all I can to nurture their spiritual side as they grow academically and enjoy all our campus has to offer.”Giancarlo Granda told Reuters he met Jerry and Becki Falwell while working as a pool attendant at the Fontainebleau Miami Beach hotel in March 2012. Starting that month and continuing into 2018, Granda told Reuters, the relationship involved him having sex with Becki Falwell while Jerry Falwell watched.“Becki and I developed an intimate relationship and Jerry enjoyed watching from the corner of the room,” Granda told Reuters. He said his relationship with the Falwells began when he was 20 and their sexual encounters occurred “multiple times per year” at hotels and at the Falwells’ home in Virginia.Falwell's attorney, Michael Bowe, told Reuters that the evangelical leader "categorically denies" the allegations made by Granda. But before Reuters published its story, Falwell released a statement to the Washington Examiner, a conservative newspaper, acknowledging his wife's extramarital affair. "During a vacation over eight years ago, Becki and I met an ambitious young man who was working at our hotel and was saving up his money to go to school," Falwell said in the statement.Falwell did not name the man in his statement, but his description of their relationship seems to track with Granda's. Falwell mentioned they had inked a real estate deal with him and "became close with him," though he denied consenting to or participating in a relationship with him. "Shortly thereafter, Becki had an inappropriate personal relationship with this person, something in which I was not involved," Falwell's statement continues. He said he was extremely distressed by the affair, but he and Becki forgave each other.More:Liberty University’s Jerry Falwell Jr. taking leave of absence after photo with pants unzippedGranda went into business with Jerry Fallwell in 2013, according to Buzzfeed News, when they bought a Miami beach youth hostel together.Falwell had been on leave from Liberty University since Aug. 7, after he posted (and later deleted) a controversial photo of himself with his arm around a pregnant woman, both of their stomachs exposed and their pants unzipped. Founded in 1971 in Lynchburg, Virginia, by Falwell's pastor father, Liberty has a student body of more than 15,000 on campus and more than 100,000 when counting its online courses. Known for its conservative politics, Liberty's honor code states, "Sexual relations outside of a biblically-ordained marriage between a natural-born man and a natural-born woman are not permissible at Liberty University."Falwell was among the earliest Christian conservatives to endorse Trump’s 2016 presidential campaign and has routinely been in the spotlight since then for a series of controversies in both his role at Liberty and his personal life.Becki Falwell, known as the "first lady of Liberty University," served as an advisory board member for the Trump campaign's Women for Trump group. She appeared on an online campaign video last year hosted by the president's daughter-in-law, Lara Trump, to discuss "teaching traditional American values."Reach Joey Garrison on Twitter @joeygarrison. 