VideoThe Upshot’s David Leonhardt breaks down the April Jobs report in less than 30 seconds.May 2, 2014After a frustrating series of false starts since the economic recovery began five years ago, American businesses appear to be increasingly confident about hiring new workers. In the best monthly showing in more than two years, employers added 288,000 jobs in April, the Labor Department said on Friday, representing three consecutive months in which payrolls grew by more than 200,000. The report, combined with other recent data, suggests the economy is poised to expand at a faster pace in the coming months, after a slow start in the depths of winter. Despite the big jump in payrolls, wages did not grow at all in April, illustrating why so many Americans remain doubtful that they will benefit from what both the Federal Reserve and the White House see as evidence of a resurgent economy.“The payroll numbers suggest that the economy is recovering from a weather-induced slowdown,” said Ethan Harris, co-head of global economics at Bank of America Merrill Lynch. But, he said, “we still have not reached the point where workers have negotiating power.”Even a sharp drop in the nation’s unemployment rate, to 6.3 percent from March’s 6.7 percent, provided little cause for celebration, since it was primarily because of a large decline in the number of people participating in the labor force rather than an increase in the number of Americans telling government survey workers that they had found a new job. As a result, even as President Obama sought to seize on the upswing in the job market as evidence that his policies are working, he continues to struggle to capitalize politically on the improving economy.ImageCredit...Michael Nagle for The New York TimesAlthough the unemployment rate is at the lowest level of Mr. Obama’s presidency, his job approval rating is also near a record low. Economists had anticipated a jump in hiring in April, as the bitterly cold winter faded into memory and consumer and business activity rose in tandem with temperatures, but the increase was much better than had been expected and cut across both white-collar and blue-collar sectors of the economy. Professional and business services was the single biggest gainer, adding 75,000 positions, while the number of construction jobs jumped by 32,000.In addition, government statisticians also revised upward the number of jobs added in February and March, suggesting the economy was stronger than first assumed.Month-to-month swings in hiring represent a snapshot of the economy, rather than a portrait, and frequently blur. But April’s 288,000 increase, which was adjusted to take account of normal seasonal variations and is itself subject to further revision, was well above the average monthly gain of 194,000 in 2013. “It’s as good as I could have expected,” said Ian Shepherdson, the chief economist at Pantheon Macroeconomics. “It was either a post-winter catch up, or the start of a stronger trend. There’s no way to know yet, but I’m happy either way.”At big companies like YRC Worldwide, a trucking firm based in Overland Park, Kan., April was something of a turning point. For the first time in several years, the company’s chief executive, James L. Welch, said, YRC has hired full-time recruiters to find more drivers and is also advertising open positions and participating in career fairs again.So far this year, YRC has hired 600 people, mostly hourly workers like truckers, mechanics and dock workers, with the bulk of them coming aboard in April. If business remains brisk in May and June and the growth trajectory seems more certain, Mr. Welch said, YRC will add another 1,000 employees to its total work force of 32,000 by the end of the year. Positions like these are especially important if the recovery is to benefit all Americans, especially since a majority of workers lack a college degree. Hourly workers at YRC earn roughly $21 an hour, and benefits are fully covered by the company.But Mr. Welch is not prepared to open the doors wide just yet. “I’m very curious to see how freight levels are in May and June,” Mr. Welch said. “We’re trying to figure out if this is an overhang from the winter, or is it the economy getting better. I don’t have the answer yet.” The uncertainty faced by companies like YRC is echoed by the conflicting signals evident in Friday’s report. While most observers agreed the surge in hiring that companies reported in April reflected more confidence among executives as profits soar and stock prices rise, Washington officials as well as professional economists were divided on the deeper significance of the contraction in the labor force. Unlike the payroll data, the figures on the labor force come from a separate survey of households that is used to determine the unemployment rate. In an interview, Thomas E. Perez, the labor secretary, suggested the big drop in the number of workers in the household survey was caused by fewer new entrants coming into the job market, rather than a sudden exodus out of it. One explanation, he said, could be that last month’s survey was taken a week earlier than usual to accommodate Easter, reducing the number of seasonal workers and high school graduates who otherwise might have been counted as part of the work force. “It’s a huge Rorschach test for everyone who is reading it,” said Guy Berger, United States economist at RBS. “People expecting a spring rebound are zeroing in on the payroll advance, while pessimists are looking at the household survey and the decline in the participation rate.” The pivot point in the debate, Mr. Berger added, is the course of inflation in the months ahead and how that might affect the Fed’s decisions on when to begin raising short-term interest rates. A falling unemployment rate and big payroll gains might normally suggest that wage pressures could begin to rise, but the lack of salary increases for ordinary workers and the lackluster participation rate portend otherwise.Janet L. Yellen, the new chairwoman of the Federal Reserve, and her immediate predecessor, Ben S. Bernanke, have both emphasized that other yardsticks besides the traditional unemployment rate are needed to gauge the economy after the financial crisis and the Great Recession. “Yellen can hang her hat on the participation rate to argue inflation is not a threat,” Mr. Berger said.The feeble participation rate, which reflects the share of all working-age adults with a job or actively looking for one, suggests a sizable amount of slack remains in the labor force, helping keep wage gains modest because employers know they can appeal to a wide range of applicants when they have new jobs to offer. But many companies draw from a relatively specialized pool, which is good for those with appropriate skills but limits the possibilities for those who are out of work.Take the case of Synchronoss Technologies, a maker of software for cloud computing and mobile communication. The company, based in Bridgewater, N.J., is looking to hire roughly 150 workers in the next few months, many of them in positions like software development and engineering that start at $75,000 to $100,000. More senior positions pay $150,000 to $200,000.Most of those jobs require specialized skills and usually go to people with extensive experience who are nearly all currently employed or to college students and former interns. “We could get 50 résumés for a position and two to four of those people will be brought in for interviews,” said Stephen Waldis, Synchronoss’s founder and chief executive. “If we’re lucky, that might yield one hire.” 