    The risks for House Republicans are numerous. Last Wednesday, Speaker John Boehner left the Capitol to see a doctor because of back pain that hobbled him after a weeklong trip to the Middle East.  A day later, he was limping around the House floor, dropping hints that he would create a special committee to investigate the 2012 attacks in Benghazi, Libya, which left a U.S. ambassador and three other Americans dead.  He ultimately announced the panel on Friday, escalating a standoff between Congress and the White House. The decision highlights Boehner’s evolution as speaker. After spending his first few years in power focused on negotiating a budget-balancing fiscal deal with President Barack Obama, the GOP majority is now overwhelmingly focused on oversight.  ( Also on POLITICO: Benghazi panel to have 7 GOPers, 5 Dems)  Some conservatives had publicly pressed GOP leadership for a select committee, but Boehner — ever the institutionalist — was reluctant to go that far. His natural tendency is to let the committees do their own work.  But Boehner was especially engaged on the issue — sharing the GOP’s contention that the White House isn’t fully cooperating with Congress. He’s also aware that politically he had few other options.  The final straw came last week when Judicial Watch, a government watchdog group, released a cache of emails obtained under the Freedom of Information Act that House panels had been unable to receive even after issuing a subpoena.  In Boehner’s mind, one of two things was happening: The Obama administration was giving House Republicans short shrift, or House committees were unable to get the full documents. Either explanation was unacceptable.  ( Also on POLITICO: John Kerry: I’ll comply with House GOP’s Benghazi request)  “I think the select committee — there is a sadness to it in a way,” said Rep. Peter Roskam (R-Ill.), the party’s chief deputy whip. “By that I mean, the speaker was reluctant to do this, it’s not something he was celebrating or anxious to do, even with earlier calls for it. But when the White House is releasing information in discovery in lawsuits that they are not releasing to Congress, that is a very serious breakdown that has to be dealt with. The speaker had a choice.”  The House will vote on a resolution to create the committee on Thursday.  But he has been laying the groundwork for some time. As he moved around the House floor last week, Boehner checked in with key figures involved in the Benghazi probes — including Rep. Frank Wolf (R-Va.), who penned his own bill to create a special Benghazi panel.  Boehner then told his senior staff he was leaning toward moving forward with the creation of the select committee, and would ask Rep. Trey Gowdy, a South Carolina conservative, to serve as its chairman.  ( Also on POLITICO: Pelosi letter rips Benghazi panel)  Some of Boehner’s senior staff then retreated to The Homestead, a posh hotel in Hot Springs, Virginia, for the annual GOP chiefs of staff retreat. Mike Sommers, Boehner’s chief of staff, spoke with Steve Stombres, Majority Leader Eric Cantor’s (R-Va.) chief of staff, and informed him of the speaker’s decision. Senior GOP leadership staffers spoke to each other — and on cellphones to their bosses — outside a conference room where the American Enterprise Institute’s Arthur Brooks was giving a talk. Boehner talked to Gowdy twice on Friday afternoon, and the South Carolinian — a former federal prosecutor who never lost a case — agreed to take the job.  Gowdy, through an aide, declined an interview request. He appeared on Fox News Monday night.  The risks for House Republicans are numerous — especially in the middle of an election year in which they’re all but certain to expand their majority in the House and have a real chance of taking control of the Senate. The panel could overreach, underperform or degenerate into the partisan witch hunt that Boehner so desperately wants to avoid. Other scandals that seemed to be gold for the GOP, such as the IRS debacle, fell into this trap.  Furthermore, there’s no clear sense of what Republicans expect they will learn from the investigation. The leadership will have a tight grip on the panel’s proceedings. Still, subpoenas are expected to fly, with recipients ranging from former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton to National Security Adviser Susan Rice.  ( WATCH: Jake Sherman on POLITICO's Driving the Day)  That Boehner, Cantor and Majority Whip Kevin McCarthy (R-Calif.) went ahead with this plan shows that they see no downside in continuing to focus on the attack. Instead of multiple committees conducting investigations — Oversight and Government Reform, Intelligence, Armed Services and Foreign Affairs have all probed the killings — there will be one single repository for documents and witnesses. And it also signals that Republicans are perfectly willing to concentrate on something besides the health care law, which has dominated most of their oversight for the past few months.  It marks a crucial moment for Gowdy, who has earned plaudits on the Oversight and Government Reform Committee for his questioning during multiple congressional investigations. Gowdy is taking on a contentious post, and that became immediately evident on Tuesday just hours after the official announcement he would be chairman. U.S. Capitol Police began investigating threats against the South Carolinian after reporters and D.C. corporate and political operatives received threatening emails that targeted Gowdy. POLITICO received the emails.  Gowdy’s panel is designed to have seven Republicans and five Democrats — although it’s far from clear if and how Democrats will participate. There is no expiration date for the panel, but it would need to be legislatively renewed once the new Congress convenes in January.  Most important, Gowdy, who was elected to Congress in 2010, has the respect of Boehner and the leadership table. It doesn’t hurt that he and the speaker are both near single-digit handicap golfers.  This whole effort has already sparked a partisan war on Capitol Hill. Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi (D-Calif.) on Tuesday morning demanded the panel be evenly divided between Republican and Democratic members.  That breakdown was never really under consideration, and sources said late Tuesday that the panel would have seven Republicans and five Democrats. Pelosi’s and Boehner’s chiefs of staff had already been in touch throughout the process. Late Tuesday, Pelosi’s staff was in private deliberations about a complete boycott of the panel.  House Republicans, on the other hand, are clamoring for a spot. Senior aides in the offices of Boehner, Cantor and McCarthy have been fielding dozens of phone calls from lawmakers who are interested in serving on the panel. They range from freshman Missouri Rep. Ann Wagner to Tennessee Rep. Marsha Blackburn to California Rep. Duncan Hunter, a former Marine who sits on the House Armed Services Committee. Boehner won’t name members until after the vote, which is slated for Thursday.  The swift formation of the panel required some weekend work, as Boehner’s staff worked with the House Rules Committee to craft language that would keep the issue front and center for the remainder of 2014.  “The goal here will be to select serious, sober-minded members who will make this about finding answers to some troubling questions and will not make this a partisan shouting match,” said one aide, who spoke without attribution to discuss the decision-making process. “We’re not going to convene a kangaroo court.”  John Bresnahan contributed to this report. 
