    
Rove says the Benghazi issue should continue to be pushed. | AP Photos Republican strategist Karl Rove suggested last week that Hillary Clinton suffers from brain damage, according to a new report.  The New York Post’s Page Six section reported Monday that Rove, appearing at a conference with former Obama spokesman Robert Gibbs and CBS correspondent Dan Raviv last Thursday, recently waded into the former secretary of state’s health issues. In 2012, Clinton — a top possible 2016 Democratic contender — suffered from a blood clot that temporarily prevented her from testifying about the attacks on the U.S. consulate in Benghazi, Libya. According to the report, Rove said the Benghazi issue should continue to be pushed.  “Thirty days in the hospital?” Rove said, according to the report. “And when she reappears, she’s wearing glasses that are only for people who have traumatic brain injury? We need to know what’s up with that.”  ( PHOTOS: Hillary Clinton’s 50 influentials)  After an initial trip to the hospital for medical tests, Clinton was later admitted for three days to a hospital in New York City. At the time, several Republicans questioned whether Clinton’s health problems were valid. On Monday, Democrats and others on Twitter were quick to slam Rove, and the Democratic National Committee blasted out criticism soon after.  Clinton, no stranger to scrutiny, tends to be viewed more favorably when she is perceived as being under unfair assault, causing the Democratic base to rally around her. Still, the comment is a way to inject into the bloodstream a topic that Republicans and even privately some Democrats have discussed quietly: whether the 66-year-old’s health is strong enough for a presidential campaign.  “Karl Rove has deceived the country for years, but there are no words for this level of lying,” said Clinton spokesman Nick Merrill. As for her health, he said, “She is 100 percent. Period.”  ( DRIVING THE DAY: Tea party test in Nebraska)  Neither Gibbs nor Rove immediately responded to a request for comment.  Maggie Haberman contributed to this report. 
