    Clinton choked up and took responsibility for the death of Chris Stevens and three others. It was probably not the way she would have chosen to go out.  Wednesday’s combative Senate hearing on the Benghazi attacks was one of Secretary of State Hillary Clinton’s last, most high-profile public appearances of her time at Foggy Bottom.  (PHOTOS: Hillary Clinton's many expressions at the Benghazi hearing)  In a few days, one of the most famous women on the planet will step off the public stage for the first time in 30 years — and she’s not going quietly.  She choked up, she raised her voice, she took full responsibility for the death of U.S. Ambassador Chris Stevens and three others, and she was defiant.  When Sen. Ron Johnson (R-Wis.) pressed her on who knew what when, she slapped him down with a raised voice: “With all due respect, four Americans were dead. What difference at this point does it make?”  ( PHOTOS: Clinton’s best Benghazi hearing lines)  This was no gauzy farewell tour, no clubby appearance before her former Senate colleagues, although most thanked her for her service. She will be back Thursday to introduce her likely successor, Sen. John Kerry (D-Mass.), before the committee.  Left unsaid, however: this is likely not her ultimate act. Already, the question — will she run for president? — follows her around relentlessly.  And if there were any consolation for Clinton on Wednesday, it doesn’t seem that the American public is holding the former first lady responsible for the death of four Americans in Libya, even as some Republican senators tried their level best to pin it on her.  ( Also on POLITICO: McCain, Paul take on Clinton on Benghazi)  She’s leaving with the highest approval ratings of her political career — 67 percent of all Americans, and 91 percent of Democrats approve of her, according to a new Washington Post/ABC News poll, while only 26 percent disapprove. Despite a health scare last month, she showed up and came out swinging for a pair of Hill hearings this week.  “The world is at her doorstep. She can ride into the sunset, write books, broker international events and certainly run for president in 2016 if she chooses,” said former Democratic campaign operative Steve Jarding, a lecturer in Public Policy at Harvard’s Center for Public Leadership.  For most of Clinton’s adult life, there has always been another mountain to climb: Yale lawyer, first lady, U.S. senator, first serious female presidential candidate and secretary of state. But as she leaves her secretary of state post, her path is not at all clear.  ( Also on POLITICO: Pol: Clinton evaded with ‘theatrics’)  As Vice President Joe Biden ricochets around town this week like a roadrunner on Red Bull, leaving little doubt he’s eyeing 2016, Clinton is approaching her future with caution and equanimity — and if we take her at face value — without a real plan. “I just want to sleep and exercise and travel for fun. And relax. It sounds so ordinary, but I haven’t done it for 20 years,” she told New York Times columnist Gail Collins last month. “I would like to see whether I can get untired.”  Rarely has a public official left office with the popularity and opportunities that embrace Clinton. Four years ago, the world was sure her moment had come and gone, stolen by a movement no one could have foreseen.  But today, the majority of Americans are rooting for her to run for president again, according to the Washington Post/ABC poll. Public Policy Polling reported that if the Iowa caucuses were held today Clinton would win 58 percent of the vote, followed by Biden with an anemic 17 percent. In Florida, she’d do even better against others in a primary, and go on to trounce favorite Republican sons Jeb Bush and Florida Sen. Marco Rubio. Even the snarling Donald Trump has called her a “great lady.”  And Clinton has finally tackled the huge debt from the 2008 campaign hanging over her head. In a Federal Election Commission report filed on Tuesday, the Clinton campaign showed it had retired a $25 million debt, and has a surplus.  ( PHOTOS: Who’s talking about Hillary, 2016?)  It’s a remarkable turnaround for Clinton, who before she became secretary of state, was considered one of the most controversial and craven politicians of her generation.  As first lady, she was reviled for being too ambitious, too cold, too loyal to her philandering husband, too involved in policy. When she took on the New York Senate campaign in 2000, she was criticized for riding her husband’s coattails. As a presidential candidate, she was assailed for running an outdated, imperial, insular campaign. In April of 2008, her approval ratings sunk to 44 percent.  But in the past four years, she has risen above the fray and been viewed as a grown-up and a leader amid the chaos surrounding an inexperienced president. Foreign service officers praise her for reaching out and expanding her inner circle. And she is highly regarded around the world.  “We are proud of you,” McCain said on Wednesday — before he called her answers on Benghazi “unsatisfactory.” “All over the world you are viewed with admiration and respect.”  “She’s really outdone herself,” Jarding said. “There were high expectations and a lot doubters and she made the transition almost seamlessly. Our standing around the world was at an all-time low, and it’s greatly improved — and she gets much of the credit for that.”  Sen. John Barrasso (R-Wyo.) noted at the hearing: “I have seen you work yourself to exhaustion … And the country is grateful.”  Indeed, today her favorable ratings are higher than the man who defeated her for president. But in one of life’s unpredictable ironies, she clearly is not ready to seize her moment.  She returned to work on Jan. 7 after being out for a month because of the flu and a bad fall that caused a concussion and a blood clot in her head. She has appeared exhausted, and as the nation’s chief diplomat, traveling 1 million miles since her appointment. There is little question the 2016 Democratic race is at a standstill until she makes a decision. Any number of Democrats would opt out if she chose to run because of her celebrity, her popularity, her ability to raise money and the global appeal of Bill Clinton.  For sure, the Clinton network is alive and well. But it’s far from certain she will run, despite pleas from her party.  Her friends want her to essentially go to a spa for six months before she decides anything. And her allies suspect she may be looking for another, less political, chapter in her life, which is what she has indicated.  “Right now, I have no intention of running,” Clinton has said.  Noted a close personal friend: “She can do anything she chooses. People are clamoring for her. The big question is what door she will choose.”  “Part of her calculation will be to see how it feels not to be an institutional power,” said Dee Dee Myers, who worked for Bill Clinton in the White House. “To make big changes she will want to make, to have impact she will want to have on real lives and real people — will she be able to do that without being in government?”  “She is the most popular woman in the world,” Democratic operative Hilary Rosen said. “I think she knows that she can continue her commitment to the public good without being president. Her husband’s work today shows that to be true.  “While she knows that the query of whether she will run or not will dog her wherever she goes for the next two years, she has gotten quite good at tuning out chatter.”  Most operatives and experts on both sides of the aisle believe the drama and baggage carried through Bill Clinton’s presidency is long behind them. Bill Clinton emerged from his presidency as a powerful global player, and she has put to rest any thoughts that her success was only related to his. She is viewed as smart, disciplined and a hard worker.  “She will be a major player in impacting public policy and American life overall,” said Phil Singer, a top official in her 2008 presidential campaign. “Even if she tries to hide, the spotlight finds her. She will examine which platform affords her the best ability to influence the issues she really cares about. And I have to say, despite all the hype, I think there’s a very real chance she will not run.” 
