G.O.P. Mulls a Strategy From Obama’s PlaybookCredit...John W. Adkisson for The New York TimesJan. 24, 2013CHARLOTTE, N.C. — As Republican leaders gathered here on Thursday to consider how to rebuild their party, President Obama was at the center of the conversation. But the sharp criticism directed at him was replaced by something new: envy over his campaign.The Republican National Committee is reviewing the party’s deficiencies, particularly in technology and grass-roots organizing, that contributed to Mitt Romney’s sound defeat last year. The excuses and grievances that several top Republicans offered up after the election have been supplanted by pledges to strengthen the party.“We need to get people organized and learn from what Obama did,” said Mike Duncan, a former national party chairman who now represents Kentucky on the committee. “We’ve got to reverse engineer what they did and leapfrog to the next cycle.”As Republicans look for a path to victory, party officials from all 50 states convened here at the winter meeting of the Republican National Committee. There was less finger-pointing than soul-searching, and Republican leaders acknowledged the urgent need to make the party more welcoming to a broader cross-section of Americans, particularly women, Hispanics and blacks.“The Republican Party does not need to change our principles, but we might need to change just about everything else we are doing,” said Gov. Bobby Jindal of Louisiana. It was time, he said, “to recalibrate the compass of conservatism.”There was more discussion about the challenges facing Republicans than the solutions. But in interviews, Republican officials from across the country said a new tone is needed, and they called on the party to take cues from its 30 governors rather than become consumed by Republicans’ differences in Washington.Tensions remain high among the Tea Party movement, the Republican establishment and other segments of the party, who are at odds over fiscal issues and taxes in Congress. Immigration policy and other measures also threaten to divide the party in the 2014 midterm elections, when Republicans are seeking to keep their House majority and win back the Senate.“The tone does have to change,” said Gov. Pat McCrory of North Carolina, who called for “a tone of respecting the other side’s opinion.” He said Republicans also should not bow to all viewpoints inside the party, declaring, “When you try to appease everyone, you satisfy no one.”A five-member panel of the Republican National Committee, known as the Growth and Opportunity Project, is scheduled to release a report in March outlining recommendations for strengthening the party, with the primary goal to win the White House in 2016. The group is reviewing how Republicans fell short last year and how the Republican primaries might have weakened Mr. Romney.Sally Bradshaw, a party strategist in Florida who is an adviser to former Gov. Jeb Bush, said Republicans needed to recruit stronger and more diverse candidates to win races. Her assignment on the panel includes a review of how Republicans and their get-out-the-vote operation were overwhelmed by the Obama campaign.“I think you’re going to see a very renewed, aggressive effort by this party to put on a different face,” Ms. Bradshaw said. “We are going to go into areas that we do not go into and see folks that we do not see.”Henry Barbour, a member of the Republican National Committee from Mississippi who is also on the panel, said the party should not dilute its conservative values, but it needed to broaden its appeal to compete with Democrats. “We did get whipped in the presidential election, and that’s not something that is taken lightly,” Mr. Barbour said. “The demographic changes in America are real, and they are a wake-up call to the Republican Party.”Newt Gingrich, the former House speaker, who competed with Mr. Romney for the Republican presidential nomination, said that the party had been “outmaneuvered” by the Obama campaign and that its ideas were not creative enough.He held court with committee members — and reporters — here on Thursday and said Republicans were responsible for their own fate. “A lot of Republicans, frankly, spent the last two years saying, ‘Oh, gee, we don’t have to do much because after Obama loses we’ll work with the new Republican president,’ ” Mr. Gingrich said. “Well, that world ain’t there, so now they have to make adjustments. They’ve got to understand that this is a different game.”Despite the party’s divisions and its disappointment about losing the White House and seats in both the House and Senate, the 168-member committee is poised to re-elect its chairman, Reince Priebus, to a second term on Friday. In 2011, Mr. Priebus inherited a party that was deeply in debt, but he has turned around the committee’s finances, which members said explained why he had no serious opposition.Mr. Priebus said he would lead a Republican rebuilding effort in all 50 states rather than simply focus on battleground states. In Congressional races next year, he said, the party would try to improve its standing with voters who have shied away from Republicans.“To those who have left the party, we want to earn your trust again,” Mr. Priebus will say in his acceptance speech on Friday, according to excerpts released by his aides. “To those who have yet to join us, we welcome you, with open doors and open arms.”