    Education reformers say they plan similar lawsuits across the country. A court ruling on Tuesday striking down job protections for teachers in California deals a sharp blow to unions — and will likely fuel political movements across the nation to eliminate teacher tenure.  Los Angeles Superior Court Judge Rolf M. Treu found five California laws governing the hiring and firing of teachers unconstitutional. But it was his language, more than the ruling itself, that will shake the political debate.  Treu found that the statutes permit too many grossly incompetent teachers to remain in classrooms across the state — and found that those teachers shortchange their students by putting them months or years behind their peers in math and reading.  ( Also on POLITICO: Obama expands student loan break)  He ruled that such a system violates the state constitution’s guarantee that all children receive “basic equality of educational opportunity.” In a blunt, unsparing 16-page opinion, Treu compared his ruling to the seminal federal desegregation case Brown v. Board of Education, decided 60 years ago last month. “The evidence is compelling. Indeed, it shocks the conscience,” Treu wrote.  In adopting the language and legal framework of the civil rights movement, Treu gave a major boost to school reformers from both parties who have long argued that the current system dooms poor and minority students to inferior educations.  He might also have put further strain on the already-shaky alliance between teachers unions and Democrats.  ( ALSO on POLITICO: Clinton's Obama challenge)  In recent years, high-profile Democrats — up to and including President Barack Obama — have broken with their traditional union allies over issues such as charter schools, standardized testing and the feasibility of evaluating teachers by how well their students perform on standardized tests. But many other Democrats in state legislatures and Congress remain loyal to teachers unions. Those ties are especially strong in California, where the unions wield strong political influence. The ruling’s scorching finding that union policies violate students’ civil rights could put those longstanding loyalties to the test.  Indeed, even before the verdict, members of the plaintiffs’ team were talking confidently about plans to present their evidence to California Gov. Jerry Brown, a close ally of the teachers unions, to prod him into joining the reformers’ side, at least on key issues such as teacher tenure.  Reformers also plan to take the fight to other states, hoping the strong language of the ruling will prompt Democrats elsewhere to reconsider ties to teachers unions. They’re considering similar lawsuits in Connecticut, New Jersey, New Mexico, New York, Oregon and elsewhere. And they plan a relentless public relations campaign, backed by millions of dollars from reform-minded philanthropists, to bring moms, dads and voters of both parties to their side.  ( Also on POLITICO: Senate Dems back Obama on Bergdahl)  Jim Finberg, a lawyer for both major California teachers unions, said he wasn’t worried by the ruling or the coming public relations juggernaut. The case, he said, was all about “busting the teachers union,” not supporting children. “People who really care about education will see through that,” he said. “The truth will out.”  Randi Weingarten, president of the American Federation of Teachers, echoed those comments, accusing the plaintiffs of seeking to divide and conquer rather than support public schools. “The other side wanted a headline that reads ‘Students win, teachers lose,’ ” Weingarten said. “This is a sad day for public education.”  But Education Secretary Arne Duncan signaled his support for the ongoing campaign to reform hiring and firing laws. He noted that “millions of young people in America … are disadvantaged by laws, practices and systems that fail to identify and support our best teachers and match them with our neediest students.” And he called the ruling “a mandate to fix these problems.”  The Education Department has been slowly drafting a plan to nudge states to better distribute effective teachers.  ( Also on POLITICO: The Obama paradox)  Though the ruling was couched as “preliminary,” there was nothing tentative about Treu’s opinion. He found “no dispute that there are a significant number of grossly ineffective teachers currently active in California classrooms” and that the legal system protects them by making it all but impossible for districts to fire even the worst teachers.  He also expressed outrage at a system that shields veteran teachers from layoffs, regardless of their competence. “The logic of this position is unfathomable and therefore constitutionally unsupportable,” he wrote.  What’s more, Treu added, evidence at trial showed that teacher protections embedded in California law disproportionately hurt black and Hispanic students, who are far more likely than their peers to be assigned truly bad teachers.  The California Federation of Teachers and the California Teachers Association plan to appeal to the state Supreme Court. Treu decided the disputed laws should remain in place pending that appeal. He will also take both sides’ comment under advisement before finalizing his ruling within the month.  Teachers unions, who have the money and the membership to exercise considerable clout in many state legislatures, defend tenure, seniority and other job protections as simply guaranteeing due process. They accuse reformers of spending big to demonize teachers and weaken unions instead of tackling other forces that affect academic achievement, such as poverty, crime and inadequate state funding.  “Let’s be clear,” said Dennis Van Roekel, president of the National Education Association. “This lawsuit was never about helping students, but is yet another attempt by millionaires and corporate special interests to undermine the teaching profession and push their own ideological agenda on public schools and students while working to privatize public education.”  Van Roekel added that the ruling will “make it harder to attract and retain quality teachers and ignores all research that shows experience is a key factor in effective teaching.”  The closely-watched case, Vergara v. State of California, was brought by nine students who said their education suffered because they were stuck in classrooms with lousy teachers who failed to challenge them, inspire them or even maintain basic discipline. Plaintiff Julia Macias, who will be entering high school in the fall, hailed their victory as proof that “students have a voice and can demand change when we stand together.” In fact, the students had quite a lot of help from powerful forces. They were represented by a high-powered legal team including former U.S. Solicitor General Ted Olson, who is perhaps best known for successfully fighting to overturn California’s ban on same-sex marriage. The team was hired by a nonprofit organization called Students Matter, which in turn was founded — and has been largely funded — by Silicon Valley entrepreneur David F. Welch.  Sources familiar with the plaintiffs’ work said the trial and accompanying public relations campaign cost “in the low millions,” with most of that financed by Welch.  The plaintiffs went after five laws that require administrators to decide whether a rookie teacher deserves tenure after just 16 months in the classroom; require a lengthy and often costly process before a teacher can be fired; and protect veteran teachers from layoffs, even if they are less effective than their younger colleagues. They put on evidence that firing a teacher can take so long and cost so much, some districts decide instead to shuffle the worst or least experienced educators to low-income schools, in what’s known as “the dance of the lemons.”  “Have we not had enough in this country’s history of short-shafting poor people and minorities?” attorney Marcellus A. McRae asked in his closing statement. “This is an abomination. This is unconstitutional. This has to stop.”  After the ruling, McRae applauded the court for reaffirming “the fundamental principle that constitutional rights do not depend on a child’s skin color or zip code.”  The state of California and teachers unions fought back hard.  They argued that the laws at issue in the case are not meant to shield bad teachers, but to ensure all teachers are treated fairly. They challenged the plaintiffs’ formula for identifying “good” and “bad” teachers, which relied in part on complex calculations of a teacher’s impact on her students’ standardized test scores. And they argued that minority students suffer far more from inequities in school funding and from the inherent disadvantages of poverty than from tenure laws.  Union leaders have also argued that the key to improving education is to bolster teacher training on the front end, so only well-qualified educators are put in front of classrooms.  The plaintiffs “present a false dichotomy,” said Finberg, the union lawyer. “They assert that one has to choose between teacher rights and student learning. In fact, the interests of teachers and students are aligned. When teachers have good working conditions, students thrive.”  The judge’s ruling did include some sympathy for teachers. He noted that California’s laws requiring administrators to decide quickly whether teachers merit tenure not only let bad teachers into the profession — but potentially kept good teachers out as well.  And he described the seniority-based protections as unfair to excellent young teachers who get pink slips just because they’re relatively new to the profession. “This court finds that both students and teachers are unfairly, unnecessarily and for no legally cognizable reason (let alone a compelling one) disadvantaged” by the California laws, Treu wrote.  The four-week trial was conducted without a jury. Both sides, especially the plaintiffs, ran aggressive public relations campaigns during the trial, hoping to win in the court of public opinion.  Students Matter plans to continue that PR campaign in the coming months to pressure lawmakers to scrap the statutes Judge Treu declared unconstitutional and come up with new policies, such as eliminating tenure altogether or requiring teachers to spend more time in the classroom demonstrating their skills before they are granted job protections.  “What’s needed ultimately is political reform that levels the playing field in Sacramento so that students don’t have to take the state to court to get an effective teacher,” said Joe Williams, executive director of Democrats for Education Reform. “We should not rule out the possibility of an education system that retains tenure but awards it on merit rather than time served.” He added that some districts and some union locals have been “begging” to implement such a system but have been blocked by the state laws the judge just found unconstitutional.  As debate over replacement laws begins in Sacramento, Students Matter plans to put on information sessions and pressure lawmakers to hold formal statehouse hearings to reprise evidence it introduced at trial.  The legal team is also considering similar litigation in other states.  Already, many states have sharply cut back on the job protections that unions cherish, aiming to give school districts more flexibility with personnel decisions.  Eleven states now use evidence of student growth — generally their scores on standardized tests — as a key factor in determining whether a teacher earns tenure, according to the National Council on Teacher Quality. And 29 states now make clear that ineffectiveness — not just gross incompetence — is grounds for dismissal.  At least 18 states require districts to consider teacher performance, not just seniority, before making layoff decisions.  Within an hour of the verdict, Michelle Rhee, former chancellor of D.C. schools, had announced a new website, SaveGreatTeachers.com, which will put pressure on lawmakers in the remaining states to change their policies to abolish or weaken tenure and other teacher job protections.  “I applaud the parents and the nine courageous students who stood up for their future and their right to a quality education,” Rhee said. “It is my hope that this movement continues on the national stage for all of our students.”  Treu acknowledged that his findings would reverberate through state legislatures. “That this Court’s decision will and should result in political discourse is beyond question,” he wrote. But he emphasized that his decision didn’t stem from any political motive, but solely from his consideration of “the evidence and law.” 
