    The House Republican whip team will canvass to see where lawmakers stand. After a day of embarrassing failures, House Republican leadership inched toward bringing a new emergency funding bill for the border crisis to the floor Friday.  The new legislation — described to GOP lawmakers in a closed-door meeting in the Capitol — uses revised language from Texas Rep. John Carter, Alabama Rep. Robert Aderholt and Georgia Rep. Jack Kingston that tightens a 2008 trafficking law that has made it more difficult to deport children from countries other than Canada and Mexico.  The bill is more costly than the legislation that had to be yanked from the floor Thursday. The latest version sends $35 million to governors to pay for the National Guard units involved in responding to the crisis, boosting the price tag to $694 million — still a far cry from the nearly $4 billion President Barack Obama requested. It is still fully offset by spending cuts, GOP sources said.  ( Also on POLITICO: House GOP talks new border bill)  The House will also hold a separate vote that significantly reins in President Barack Obama’s power to shield undocumented immigrants from deportations — teeing off a popular 2012 administration initiative that protected so-called “Dreamers.”  The House is heading toward an evening vote on the border package. Friday’s changes seemed to build support for the package among House Republicans but prompted an angry response from Obama.  “House Republicans as we speak are trying to pass the most extreme and unworkable version of a bill that they already know is going nowhere, that can’t pass the Senate,” Obama told reporters at the White House. “They’re not even trying to solve the problem.”  Lawmakers and aides said the language regarding the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals is being changed so the roughly 550,000 current beneficiaries, who are granted a two-year reprieve from deportations, will be blocked from renewing their status in the program. That essentially makes those hundreds of thousands of young undocumented immigrants eligible for deportations.  ( Also on POLITICO: House GOP in disarray: Border fight delays recess)  That change is a clear nod to the conservatives in the conference, who have widely blamed the Obama administration program as the root cause of the steep increase in unaccompanied migrant children coming to the U.S.-Mexico border.  But the vote will put a handful of Republican lawmakers representing significant Latino constituencies in a tough political spot.  “I think we should be very generous with those children who have not done anything wrong,” said Rep. Mario Diaz-Balart (R-Fla.), who plans to vote against the anti-DACA measure. “I’ve always said the United States is a meritocracy … there’s no secret about my position.”  The House held a procedural vote late in the morning to determine the level of support for the bill. Senior GOP leadership sources said Friday morning they expect to pass the bill, and leave town for the month at the end of the day.  Beyond the border bill, GOP leaders are talking about introducing another bill to plus up funding for the Iron Dome missile defense system in Israel.  As a policy matter, the border bill matters little because the Senate has already left town for the month and Obama would never support it.  Still, the Democratic response was immediate. On the other end of the Capitol, Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid (D-Nev.) said the House GOP was “heading from bad to worse.” “Let’s be clear about what’s happening today on the other side of the Capitol,” Reid said. “House Republicans will vote to deport children who have been living in the United States their entire lives.”  At a press conference with House Democratic leadership and the Congressional Hispanic Caucus, Rep. Luis Gutierrez (D-Ill.) leveled sharp criticism at Republican lawmakers who have used harsh language to characterize the unaccompanied children coming to the border.  “They have said that they are disease-ridden, lice-filled, gangbangers, drug dealers, mules of the drug cartels who have come here in hordes to invade our nation,” a furious Gutierrez said. “Now they are demonstrating that that’s how they feel in their legislation because they have to go down to the least common denominator of hatefulness toward an immigrant community”  “And when they say it about the children, they say it about all of us,” he added.  Politically, the House package has serious implications for Republicans. The Senate has not been able to pass its border bill, and House Republicans were determined to something before leaving for the August recess to show that they’re at least trying to address the humanitarian crisis.  In the closed meeting, the legislation was picking up support from the most conservative parts of the House Republican Conference. GOP Reps. Michele Bachmann of Minnesota, Louie Gohmert (R-Texas) and Steve King (Iowa) — among the biggest immigration hardliners in Congress — were on board, illustrating that the legislation will likely be accepted by the hard right.  Rep. Matt Salmon (R-Ariz.), a key lawmaker behind drafting the conference’s policy recommendations to the border crisis, said several Republicans who would have rejected the leadership’s border-crisis proposal stood up during the closed-door session and said they would switch their votes.  “I think this was one of the best conferences we’ve had over the past couple of years,” said Rep. Chuck Fleischmann (R-Tenn.). “I’m going to go back and re-read the changes, but I think you’re going to see a strong positive vote for this bill” from Republicans.  However, other conservatives remained unconvinced or “no” votes, saying they were not satisfied by the changes made to the bill by the leadership.  Rep. John Fleming (R-La.) said he was concerned that a second bill that targets the Obama administration’s deferred action program would fail, meaning the House would pass an emergency border funding bill without addressing what he says is the cause of the crisis.  “I don’t see how I can go back to my district and say I appropriated money to the president without fixing the underlying problem first,” Fleming said. “If you’re asking me to vote for a ‘message bill,’ which is the border bill, then I also have to be part of the most important part of the message, and that is to stop DACA itself. That’s what is creating the problem.”  And Rep. Mo Brooks (R-Ala.) said he would still vote against the border supplemental, though he would vote in favor of gutting DACA.  Passing this legislation today is important for Louisiana Rep. Steve Scalise, who became House majority whip Thursday. On his first day in leadership, Speaker John Boehner and Majority Leader Kevin McCarthy of California had to pull the original border security package from the House floor.  Carter’s proposal is key to this new package. The Texas Republican said the language he used is a “little tighter” than the bill presented Thursday. But he didn’t attend strategy sessions Thursday night to cobble the new package together.  “I had other things I had to do,” Carter said. 
