    The president says the militants advanced more rapidly in Iraq than anyone predicted. The U.S. military mission in Iraq could go on for months, President Barack Obama said Saturday, but a long-term solution involving the Iraqi government will take much longer.  The president, who once referred to the Islamic State in Iraq and the Levant as a “JV team,” also acknowledged that the militants advanced more rapidly in Iraq than anyone predicted.  Obama spoke from the White House just prior to leaving for a two-week vacation with his family in Martha’s Vineyard.  Military airstrikes have destroyed ISIL arms and equipment in western Iraq, but the humanitarian effort to help? the Yazidi population will take more time to complete, Obama said.  ( Also on POLITICO: Obama: Not another Iraq)  “We feel confident we can prevent ISIL from going up the mountain and slaughtering the people who are there,” Obama said. U.S. military forces are “positioned to strike ISIL terrorists around the mountain” to help Iraqi forces break the siege. The complicated next step, Obama said, “is how do we give safe passage?”  There remains no “particular timetable” for how long the mission will continue, but it would not be resolved in weeks, Obama said.  “This is going to be a long-term project,” he said.  British Prime Minister David Cameron and French Prime Minister Francois Hollande agreed to assist with the humanitarian airdrops and logistical support in moving the Yazidis from Mount Sinjar, where thousands have sought refuge from the militants, Obama said.  ( Also on POLITICO: The Obama doctrine?)  Obama also forcefully rejected a question from a reporter asking whether he regrets pulling U.S. ground forces out of Iraq, pointing to Baghdad’s failure to grant American troops immunity from prosecution.  “What I just find interesting is the degree to which this issue keeps on coming up, as if this was my decision,” Obama said. “Under the previous administration, we had turned over the country to a sovereign, democratically elected Iraqi government. In order for us to maintain troops in Iraq, we needed the invitation of the Iraqi government and we needed assurances that our personnel would be immune from prosecution if, for example, they were protecting themselves and ended up getting in a firefight with Iraqis, that they wouldn’t be hauled before an Iraqi judicial system.  “And the Iraqi government, based on its political considerations, in part because Iraqis were tired of a U.S. occupation, declined to provide us those assurances,” he continued. “And on that basis, we left.”  The president has given this explanation previously, but has also repeatedly celebrated his administration’s efforts to get U.S. forces out of Iraq and campaigned on the issue during his presidential campaigns.  ( Also on POLITICO: 10 things to know about Yazidis)  “So let’s just be clear: The reason that we did not have a follow-on force in Iraq was because the Iraqis were — a majority of Iraqis did not want U.S. troops there, and politically they could not pass the kind of laws that would be required to protect our troops in Iraq,” he said.  “So that entire analysis is bogus and is wrong,” Obama added. “But it gets frequently peddled around here by folks who oftentimes are trying to defend previous policies that they themselves made.”  The president was also asked to explain a comment he made in January downplaying the threat that the militants posed, saying they were like players on junior varsity team.  “There is no doubt that their advance, their movement over the last several months has been more rapid than the intelligence estimates and I think the expectations of policymakers both in and outside of Iraq,” Obama said. “Part of that is not a full appreciation of the full degree to which the Iraq security forces, when they are far away from Baghdad, did not have the incentive or capacity to hold ground against an aggressive adversary.”  Obama likes to retreat fully from the cameras during his annual summer and winter breaks, but any hope of that has been dashed by the unrest in Iraq. Obama has already decided to fly back to the White House on Aug. 17 for a day or two of meetings, although aides will not say why he is interrupting his vacation. Obama will head back to Martha’s Vineyard for the second week of his trip.  “I’m ready to not have a suit on for a while,” he said Saturday as his remarks ended, according to the White House pool report. 
