    Now that they’ve made peace, keeping it will be the challenge. | White House via Getty 
A split between Hillary Clinton and Barack Obama was inevitable. Now that they’ve made peace, keeping it will be the challenge.  The Obama and Clinton camps tried to mend their differences Tuesday, but certain dynamics won’t be as easy to overcome in the months ahead as Clinton mulls a White House bid: Some advisers around both politicians have a hard time letting bygones be bygones. The press is determined to continue to dissect the relationship. And Obama and Clinton have genuinely different interests and instincts on some big questions facing the country.  The tiff began when, in an interview with The Atlantic, Clinton dissed the president’s foreign policy philosophy and called his early approach to Syria a “failure.”  ( Also on POLITICO: Hillary to Obama: Let's hug it out)  White House aides then groused anonymously to The New York Times that Clinton was far more muted on areas of disagreement when she was actually serving in Obama’s Cabinet. And hours later, longtime Obama adviser David Axelrod escalated the situation, swiping at Clinton on Twitter for her Iraq war vote years ago.  By Tuesday afternoon, Clinton had called Obama as part of a very public attempt to kill the ugly headlines.  Obama aides and some Clinton allies downplayed the 72-hour episode with dismissive complaints about a voracious media that have been looking for fissures between the two camps since the 2008 Democratic primary, and both sides made it clear they wanted to move on.  “To me, this story is a classic August self-licking ice cream cone,” said Tommy Vietor, a former Obama aide who assisted Clinton with the rollout of her recent memoir, “Hard Choices.”  ( Also on POLITICO: Axelrod swipes at Clinton over Iraq)  But the maneuvering nonetheless demonstrated how the Obama-Clinton alliance, long viewed as mutually beneficial, will be tested repeatedly.  Obama has a record and a legacy to solidify in the public’s mind before leaving the White House. The shot by Axelrod underscored that the president’s allies aren’t going to take the criticism without some kind of fight.  Clinton, who served as secretary of state under Obama, faces the challenge of having to separate herself from an unpopular president but not so much that she looks inauthentic or opportunistic. Obama may have middling job approval numbers, but he still maintains a deep reservoir of support among constituencies that Clinton won’t want to alienate.  And while Clinton wants to shed the long-held public view of her as overly cautious and poll-tested, being candid also comes with a price. At the same time, her comments to The Atlantic’s Jeffrey Goldberg underscore that Clinton has never been a natural politician, remains far more gaffe-prone than many believe and has a rail-thin political operation with no master strategist.  ( Also on POLITICO: Clinton to party with Obama)  The relationship between Obama and Clinton is so sensitive that few Democrats wanted to touch the issue Tuesday, particularly after Axelrod’s tweet. Many White House aides and allies declined to comment or ignored requests to talk about it.  Longtime Clinton ally James Carville, normally a chatty political observer, dodged by cheerfully saying, “There’s a town in Texas called El Paso. And I’m gonna El Paso” on this one.  Others tried to downplay the episode.  Ben Rhodes, a White House deputy national security adviser, told CNN late Tuesday afternoon that the Obama-Clinton relationship is “very resilient.” “They have been through so much together,” Rhodes said. “They agree about far more than they disagree about.”  Vietor, meanwhile, dismissed the notion of a growing rift. “The president and Secretary Clinton are extremely close,” Vietor said in an email. “So are their staffs.”  Clinton has spent months creeping away around the margins from the president, while primarily highlighting the areas where they agree.  In “Hard Choices,” which she was promoting in the interview with Goldberg, Clinton devoted a chapter to the mess in Syria, a topic that was one of her key policy differences with Obama. Shortly before she left the State Department, she and then-CIA head David Petraeus advocated a plan to arm Syrian rebels fighting President Bashar Assad’s regime — a plan Obama nixed.  In the Goldberg interview, however, she used more pointed language than in the past, describing Obama’s decision against aiding the rebels as a “failure.” But her toughest words were about Obama’s overall approach on foreign policy, which some of the president’s advisers have described as “Don’t do stupid sh—,” or “Don’t do stupid stuff.”  “Great nations need organizing principles, and ‘Don’t do stupid stuff’ is not an organizing principle,” she said. It was that remark that ricocheted in the hours after the interview was posted Saturday night, dominating news coverage by Monday morning.  Some Clinton allies were thrilled that she was so upfront. “I loved it,” emailed one Clinton supporter.  Another described it as a “a trial balloon for the authentic Hillary. And if the Democrats won’t accept that then fine — maybe she won’t run.”  Through it all, Clinton’s aides stayed mum when asked to clarify the comments, or to explain the backstory of the interview, saying only that it was part of her book tour and that Goldberg had been a long-planned target.  But Clinton’s decision to call Obama on Tuesday underscored that her comments in the interview were not a planned attack — though at no point did the statement mentioning her outreach to the president suggest she was backing away from the substance of her remarks.  Clinton allies also pointed out that she praised Obama throughout the interview, threading her more pointed critiques with defenses of his approach. But the rule of politics is that the negatives will always get more attention.  Even as some White House aides faulted the media for the coverage, Clinton aides were clearly well aware of the time bomb the interview represented — they warned the White House after it took place, and before it ran.  With 2016 looming, White House aides have acknowledged that there would need to be a high tolerance for delineating differences with the president.  They want the Democratic nominee to win, no matter who it is, and if that means creating distance, that’s fine. But they didn’t expect that to happen for a while because they assumed Clinton would want to show that she was part of a successful presidency, and undercutting Obama wouldn’t help.  Several sources described Obama aides as angered by Clinton’s critiques, particularly because they came as the president is grappling with a string of global crises, from Ukraine to Iraq to Gaza. “I don’t think [they] expected her to say it while he’s in the middle of trying to resolve it,” said one of the Clinton backers.  The low-grade grumbling blew into the open when Axelrod aired his grievance on Twitter. “Just to clarify: ‘Don’t do stupid stuff’ means stuff like occupying Iraq in the first place, which was a tragically bad decision,” read the tweet from Axelrod. The tweet was an apparent swipe at Clinton’s vote to authorize the use of force in Iraq back when she was a senator, a vote she has described as the wrong choice in her memoir.  Axelrod declined repeated requests to explain his tweet. Meanwhile, sources said that Clinton’s call to Obama on Tuesday was in the works before Axelrod took to Twitter.  If anything, the overall flap has illustrated Clinton’s challenge in being viewed as authentic. The broad assumption among political elites was that, in making the comments to The Atlantic, Clinton, whose calculated approach to politics bedeviled her in 2008, was making a deliberate, quick pivot away from a president whose poll numbers are sinking.  But Clinton has never been a natural performer — her muscle memory for politics is weak, and throughout her campaigns, she’s had a window of re-engaging before working out the kinks. What’s more, she has a skeleton political staff right now and has had difficulty switching toward a discussion of domestic policies. Because her memoir is about her time at the State Department, her views on foreign policy have been getting more attention.  Considering the chaos in the Middle East now, including with the rise of the Islamic State terrorist group in Iraq, Clinton appeared to be having a moment of vindication for her more hawkish views, which some derided as too bellicose in her 2008 primary against Obama. And many of her supporters forcefully noted that she was merely articulating long-held, and publicly known, differences of opinion with Obama.  The publicity over the tensions between the two camps seemed headed for overdrive in the lead-up to a cocktail party Wednesday night in Martha’s Vineyard that both Obama and Clinton are expected to attend. The president is vacationing on the Massachusetts summer retreat, and Clinton will be signing books at a local store. Both are friendly with Vernon Jordan, the host and Democratic Party fixture.  In the statement revealing that Clinton had reached out to the president to assure him her comments to Goldberg were not meant as an “attack,” her spokesman emphasized how well Clinton regards Obama.  “Like any two friends who have to deal with the public eye,” spokesman Nick Merrill said, “she looks forward to hugging it out when she they see each other tomorrow night.”  But while the call to the president may have effectively de-escalated this particular confrontation, it’s not likely to be the last. 
