    
'ISIL has come to represent the very worst elements in the region,' Obama says. President Barack Obama is working on strategies to fight Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant, and to continue to dissuade Russia from military involvement in Ukraine, he said Thursday from the White House.  Obama said he has directed Defense Secretary Chuck Hagel to prepare a range of options to counter ISIL and has instructed Secretary of State John Kerry to travel to the region to build a coalition in opposition to the group. Though there have been reports suggesting that broader military action in the region is imminent, the president said he will take his time.  “I don’t want to put the cart before the horse. We don’t have a strategy yet,” Obama said from the White House press briefing room.  ( Also on POLITICO: Obama's 'strategy' misfire)  “My priority at this point is to make sure that the gains that ISIL made are rolled back and that Iraq” can secure itself, he said. “Clearly, ISIL has come to represent the very worst elements in the region that we have to deal with collectively.”  Airstrikes against ISIL in Iraq have been successful in destroying some of the group’s arms and equipment and will continue, Obama said, but there will be more than just a military response. “Our military action has to be part of a broader, more comprehensive strategy,” he said.  The president said his administration has stayed in contact with Congress about what’s happening in the region and will continue to do so as he considers the next steps.  ( Also on POLITICO: Josh Earnest clarifies Barack Obama ISIL answer)  “As our strategy develops, we will continue to consult with Congress, and I do think that it’ll be important for Congress to weigh in — or that our consultations with Congress continue to develop — so that the American people are part of the debate,” he said.  Obama also used his time before reporters to express his disapproval of the Russian military’s latest move into Ukraine. “Russia is responsible for the violence in eastern Ukraine,” he said.  With the latest incursion in Novoazovsk, Ukraine’s government says that Russian troops are now operating on three fronts in the eastern part of the country.  ( Also on POLITICO: Mike Rogers: Obama answer ‘concerning’)  “I consider the actions that we’ve seen in the last week as a continuation of what we’ve seen for months now,” he said, sidestepping a reporter’s question about whether Russians have staged an invasion.  “The sanctions that have already been applied have been effective. Our intelligence shows that the Russians know they’ve been effective,” Obama said.  Obama also announced that Ukrainian President Petro Poroshenko will visit the White House next month.  