    Obama will delay plans to issue an executive order to address immigration reform. President Barack Obama will delay plans to issue an executive order on immigration until the end of the year, heeding the warnings of Democratic senators who feared a voter backlash ahead of the November elections.  The decision is a major reversal from June, when the president stood in the Rose Garden and pledged to make fixes to the immigration system by the end of the summer. The delay reflected growing Democratic concerns that a sweeping executive order would further endanger the Senate majority.  “The president wants to do this in a way that is sustainable for the long-term, that is most effective and good for the country,” a White House official said in a statement Saturday. “The reality the president has had to weigh is that we’re in the midst of the political season, and because of the Republicans’ extreme politicization of this issue, the president believes it would be harmful to the policy itself and to the long-term prospects for comprehensive immigration reform to announce administrative action before the elections.”  ( Also on POLITICO: Dems urge immigration order delay)  The announcement was not a surprise to those who have watched the process closely, particularly in the last week as the White House publicly backed away from his September deadline and as more Senate Democrats called on the president to delay issuing an executive order.  But the decision could be very consequential for Obama, renewing anger among Hispanic voters and raising broader questions about the president’s handling of the issue throughout his presidency. Democrats viewed immigration reform as a slam dunk, both legislatively and politically, following the 2012 election. Two years later, Democrats are deeply divided over their strategy on the issue.  Obama is expected to discuss his decision during an interview airing Sunday on NBC’s “Meet the Press,” a White House official said Saturday.  ( Also on POLITICO: Boehner slams Obama's 'raw politics')  The White House began informing Capitol Hill, immigrant advocates and other outside interest groups last night, only hours after Obama told reporters he would use a return flight from the NATO summit in Wales to study his options.  “The president has had many conversations and consultations throughout this process — including with his Cabinet, members of Congress, stakeholders, and advocates on this issue,” the White House official said. “The president is confident in his authority to act, and he will before the end of the year. But again, nothing will replace Congress acting on comprehensive immigration reform and the president will keep pressing Congress to act.”  Just a few months ago, immigration reform seemed like a political winner for the White House on multiple fronts.  ( PHOTOS: Deportation rally at the White House)  It was a high-profile way for Obama to illustrate a Congress unwilling to act, driving him to find solutions without them. And for the midterms, it was going to be the president’s way of boosting Democratic turnout among both Latinos, labor and a wider progressive base that’s increasingly identified immigration reform as a top cause. Voters who turn against Democrats by Obama acting were likely already motivated Republican voters anyway, went the thinking. And there were several key states where that turnout, particularly among Latinos, seemed like it could be a factor in a win, including Sen. Mark Udall’s re-election bid in Colorado, the Senate bids of Bruce Braley in Iowa and Michelle Nunn in Georgia, along with House races across the country.  But even as the White House said that the Department of Homeland Security, and not politics, would guide the decision, conversations with endangered Democrats began almost immediately. The resistance came from expected spots, like Sen. Mark Pryor in Arkansas, but in recent days, even from people like reliably liberal Sen. Al Franken of Minnesota, running in a race that he’s tried to keep from becoming competitive.  White House officials had been locked in an intense debate over whether Obama should announce a program to defer deportations for millions of undocumented immigrants before Election Day — aware that whichever choice they make could be tagged as the reason that Democrats lost the Senate.  Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid issued a statement Saturday blaming House Republicans for failing to pass comprehensive immigration reform legislation and endorsing Obama’s desire to act without Congress, but didn’t say when that action should be.  “The president has made clear that while nothing replaces Congress acting on comprehensive immigration reform, given the House Republicans’ refusal to act for over a year, he will use his executive authority to take significant steps to reform our broken immigration system,” Reid said. “I know that the president is determined to act, and when he does I support a broad use of his authority to fix as much of our broken immigration system as he can through executive action.”  The reaction from the progressive base, meanwhile, was harsh.  “In a breathtakingly harsh and short sighted political miscalculation, immigrant families were sacrificed today,” said Deepak Bhargava of the Fair Immigration Reform Movement (FIRM). “Make no mistake – this delay will have tragic consequences for the fathers, mothers, sons and daughters who will be ripped from one another’s arms in the coming weeks and months. A delay of weeks may not seem like a lot to a politician in DC, but it is everything to a child who will lose his or her parents in that time.”  The leaders of the Service Employees International Union issued a statement that they “are deeply disappointed but not paralyzed.”  Others said the delay only further raises the expectations for the executive order that Obama has promised to deliver by the end of the year.  “There is going to be a lot of skepticism about whether he will actually do it,” said Angela Kelley, an immigration strategist at the Center for American Progress. “He will have to present a pretty strong, convincing case that the issue isn’t going to be left at the altar yet again.”  For his part, House Speaker John Boehner — who opposes an Obama executive order on immigration — criticized Saturday’s announcement.  “There is a never a ‘right’ time for the president to declare amnesty by executive action,” Boehner said in a statement, “but the decision to simply delay this deeply-controversial and possibly unconstitutional unilateral action until after the election — instead of abandoning the idea altogether — smacks of raw politics. The American people deserve honesty, transparency, and accountability — and any unilateral action will only further strain the bonds of trust between the White House and the people they are supposed to serve.” 
