Sept. 7, 2014Credit...Doug Mills/The New York TimesWASHINGTON — President Obama will use a speech to the nation on Wednesday to make his case for launching a United States-led offensive against Sunni militants gaining ground in the Middle East, seeking to rally support for a broad military mission while reassuring the public he is not plunging American forces into another Iraq war.“I’m preparing the country to make sure that we deal with a threat from” the Islamic State in Iraq and Syria, or ISIS, Mr. Obama said in an interview broadcast Sunday on NBC’s “Meet the Press.”“What I want people to understand,” he said, “is that over the course of months, we are going to be able to not just blunt the momentum” of the militants. “We are going to systematically degrade their capabilities; we’re going to shrink the territory that they control; and, ultimately, we’re going to defeat them,” he added.The planned speech suggests that the president may be moving closer to a decision on whether to expand the month-old air campaign against ISIS in Iraq into Syria, and it is Mr. Obama’s latest attempt to answer critics who charge that he lacks a viable plan or the fortitude to go after the group.The president was adamant that he had no intention of sending American combat troops to go after ISIS, repeating no fewer than three times during the interview that he would not do so, and calling the idea of putting United States boots on the ground “a profound mistake.”“This is not going to be an announcement about U.S. ground troops,” Mr. Obama said. “This is not the equivalent of the Iraq war.”The president’s plans for a major address came just days after he returned from a NATO summit meeting in Wales, where he and top members of his administration worked on the sidelines to rally international support for a coalition to confront ISIS in Iraq and Syria. And the “Meet the Press” interview was broadcast hours after American warplanes carried out a new round of attacks on ISIS targets near a major hydroelectric dam in Iraq.The speech is set for the day before the 13th anniversary of the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks, which touched off a broad military campaign to defeat the terrorist group Al Qaeda and, ultimately, to protracted American-led wars in Afghanistan and Iraq. Opposition to those wars and a vow to end them responsibly helped propel Mr. Obama to the White House.The president said he planned to meet with congressional leaders on Tuesday to outline his strategy, but suggested he did not need a vote to move forward with his campaign against ISIS, saying he was “confident” that he has the authorization he needs. Still, Mr. Obama hinted that he might ask for more money for the mission, saying, “It’s going to require some resources, I suspect, above what we are currently doing in the region.”Such a request would trigger a congressional debate and vote, and could hinder another of Mr. Obama’s vows: to cut the Pentagon budget.White House officials have said that Mr. Obama is operating under his constitutional powers as commander in chief in striking ISIS in Iraq, where the central government in Baghdad and Kurdish regional officials based in Erbil have requested United States assistance in battling the group. When the president announced what he described as a limited bombing campaign against ISIS, he said the goal was to protect Iraqi minorities besieged by ISIS and to safeguard American citizens and United States facilities in Iraq.The president has been sending notifications to Congress on the airstrikes under the War Powers Act, which bars American troops from engaging in military action for more than 60 days without congressional authorization. But recent presidents have ignored that requirement. And some lawmakers in both parties are increasingly uncomfortable ceding the debate over military action in Iraq, and potentially Syria, to the president.Senator Mitch McConnell, Republican of Kentucky and the minority leader, said Mr. Obama must explain to Congress how any additional authority he might seek to strike ISIS would protect Americans. He said training and equipping the militaries of partner nations to counter ISIS, as the president has done in Iraq and is proposing to do in Syria, “is not tenable and will not generate sufficient combat power to protect America.”If the president is prepared to engage Congress “with a strategic plan” to protect the United States and its allies from ISIS, Mr. McConnell said in a statement on Saturday, “I believe he will have significant congressional support.” The ISIS threat, he added, “is real and it’s growing. And it is time for President Obama to exercise some leadership in launching a response.”In the interview on Sunday, Mr. Obama said he envisioned the Free Syrian Army’s providing the ground presence needed to confront ISIS in Syria. He said that until a moderate Sunni opposition emerged, there was no real hope of ousting President Bashar al-Assad of Syria. But the opposition has been fractured, and the moderate militias are viewed as far less capable than ISIS.“Our attitude towards Assad continues to be that through his actions, through using chemical weapons on his own people, dropping barrel bombs that killed innocent children, that he has foregone legitimacy,” Mr. Obama said. “But when it comes to our policy and the coalition that we’re putting together, our focus specifically is on ISIL.” (ISIL is the name used by administration officials for the militant group.)It is a mark of how much things have changed since just one year ago, when Mr. Obama was weighing airstrikes to punish Mr. Assad for his use of chemical weapons. Faced with a new array of international crises in recent months, the president said he was “energized” by the challenges facing him. But he also showed signs of strain during the interview, admitting that the demands of his position — including dealing with Russia’s intervention in Ukraine, the rise of ISIS and to the Ebola outbreak in West Africa — were taking a toll.“There are days where I’m not getting enough sleep, because we’ve got a lot on our plate,” he said.Mr. Obama also suggested that he regretted his decision last month to go golfing immediately after responding publicly to the ISIS release of a video showing the beheading of the American journalist James Foley.“I should’ve anticipated the optics,” the president said, adding that the “theater” of his job was “not something that always comes naturally to me.“But it matters. And I’m mindful of that.”It is one of the pitfalls of any presidential vacation, Mr. Obama said in the interview. “What I’d love,” the president added, “is a vacation from the press.”