    Apple is seeking to redefine the market for 'wearables.' A week after the nude celebrity photo hack, Apple launched new products focused on mobile payments and health and fitness with an underlying message: Trust us.  But serious questions about the privacy and security of such information are bound to crop up for the tech giant. Technology and the Internet are part of everyday habits like fitness and paying bills. With some tech companies collecting so much information these days, Apple is banking that it is on the right path.  “Security is at the core of Apple Pay,” Apple CEO Tim Cook said when he introduced a mobile payment system that could upend the decades-old credit card system.  The privacy questions, including the issue of mobile apps that store personal health information, are especially pertinent since last week, when a website published dozens of hacked nude celebrity photos from Apple phones. Apple contends that its iCloud was not hacked, but rather thieves individually hacked victims’ personal ID passwords.  ( Also on POLITICO: Apple event charges up D.C. Twitter)  After rolling out Apple Pay, the company introduced the audience to the long-awaited Apple Watch and its set of sensors. They will allow consumers to monitor their mileage walking and running on flat and elevated surfaces. The device, which comes in three styles and various colors, can detect your heartbeat as well as set goals and reward fitness milestones.  “You can share something as personal as your own heartbeat,” said Jony Ive, Apple’s lead designer.  The device comes as the company seeks to redefine the market for “wearables” — devices that people use to track their fitness and health, and which eventually could become an integral and profitable part of the U.S. health care system.  With Apple Pay, the premise is easy: Hold your phone up to a retail sensor and put your thumb on the Touch ID to complete a transaction. “It is so cool,” Cook gushed.  Apple also sees that it can be profitable. The payment business is estimated to make about $12 billion a day and more than $4 trillion a year. Cook promised it is secure: “It doesn’t know what you bought, what you paid for it, and the clerk doesn’t see your name, credit card number or security code.”  ( Also on POLITICO: Steven Sotloff spokesman blasts White House handling)  At a time when consumers are more concerned than ever about retail hacks and breaches, Apple stressed that it doesn’t store credit card numbers, collect any retail transaction information or share data with anyone.  Apple Pay uses a three-year-old technology called Near Field Communications to connect the phone to the point-of-sale sensor, but layered on top of that is Touch ID, Apple’s unique fingerprint identification technology that replaces the credit card number with a one-time-only code. If a hacker broke into the retail database, they wouldn’t find a credit card number or anything worth stealing.  “It’s so easy to lose your card or have it compromised,” Cook said. “No wonder people have dreamed of replacing it, but they’ve all failed.”  But Apple Watch, when combined with Apple’s Health Kit — an application framework open to third-party developers — raises some unique privacy concerns. Aside from nakedness, there is nothing more personal for a consumer than medical information.  The HealthKit app will allow consumers to wear their health and fitness information on their sleeves with the new Apple Watch.  ( Also on POLITICO: Obama's brain drain)  Labor Day evening, the company announced that its developer guidelines for HealthKit had a new provision: Those working with HealthKit were banned from storing information in iCloud. Apple posted that and other strict new guidelines just as the celebrity hacking scandal was breaking.  HealthKit will be used in research and applications by the Mayo Clinic, the Cleveland Clinic and electronic health records vendor Epic. Eventually, data from the sensors in HealthKit and other apps could be integrated into health care in a major way. But Apple said information stored in HealthKit will not be sold to data brokers — which is how most apps make their money.  Apple, which isn’t first in the so-called mHealth space, wants to make sure it is better than most.  “eHealth is going to be huge; $2.7 trillion of the American economy is spent on health care and hundreds of billions on health IT, and Apple wants a piece of that,” said Morgan Reed, executive director of the Association for Competitive Technology. To make sure it gets a head start on redefining the health and financial categories, Apple has lined up big partners for both HealthKit and Apple Pay. For Apple Pay, that includes retailers such as CVS, Walgreens, Petco, Whole Foods and Nordstrom, as well as Visa, MasterCard and American Express, plus major bank companies.  With health care, consumers are used to working with their information in an environment that’s required by law to keep it private and safe — the doctor’s office or securely on an electronic health record. Most don’t know — or don’t care — that putting it on their mobile phones opens up a whole new world of potential theft, loss or exposure.  “Health data stored by patients in apps is typically not protected by federal health privacy laws, although some apps may be covered by state privacy laws, so historically consumers using these apps were protected to the extent the app vendors abided by any promises made in their licensing agreements or privacy policies,” said Deven McGraw, a health care attorney for Manatt, Phelps & Phillips.  HealthKit data can’t be sold to brokers and won’t exist in iCloud. But that covers only data obtained through HealthKit — not everything the consumer uses, McGraw said.  “The public is used to operating under [the 1996 health privacy law] HIPAA , and it may think it comes with them when they put personal health information on apps,” said Jennifer Geetter, an attorney at McDermott Will & Emery and HIPAA expert. “By and large, it does not.”  Consumer-generated health information is nothing new, Geetter said. But Apple’s huge popularity propels it into the spotlight.  “Given the popularity of the iPhone and its uncanny ability to know what we want before we know, anything Apple does now compounds and expands the existing challenge of meeting consumer expectations while protecting privacy,” Geetter said.  Tuesday’s event proved that even Apple can experience technical difficulties. Livestream glitches marred the conference for some who were tuning in. The sound intermittently failed, and a Chinese translator blared loudly under the main audio. A rainbow screen with a schedule and “Apple special event” text popped up each time the broadcast crashed. 
