    
John Boehner and his leadership team worked with Democrats drive up the vote count. In a rare bipartisan show of support, the House approved President Barack Obama’s controversial plan to arm and train rebels in Syria, part of the White House’s strategy to confront the Islamic State in Iraq and the Levant.  The vote was 273-156 and was backed by 159 Republicans and 114 Democrats. Eighty five Democrats and 71 Republicans opposed the measure, with three GOP lawmakers not voting.  Speaker John Boehner (R-Ohio) — who took the unusual step of voting for the Syria proposal — and his leadership team worked closely with White House officials and congressional Democrats to whip nervous lawmakers and drive the vote count as high as possible. The Syria language was attached as an amendment to a bill that keeps the government funded through mid-December.  ( Also on POLITICO: Kerry: No ground troops in ISIL fight)  The Senate is expected to quickly take up and pass the legislation this week as Congress rushes to finish its work so members and senators can go home to run for reelection.  Despite pleas from party leaders and a heavy dose of personal lobbying by Obama and other senior White House officials, dozens of war-weary Republicans and Democrats voted against the measure, saying the administration proposal is just another step in sending American combat troops back into Iraq, or dragging the United States into Syria’s bloody civil war.  “We should have our eyes open wide enough to know we are being asked to do something more today than train 3 to 5,000 fighters in the Free Syrian Army,” insisted Rep. Jackie Speier (D-Calif.) who voted against the measure. “We are not facing a limited engagement but a new war.”  ( Also on POLITICO: The left leery of Obama's ISIL action)  Speier’s comments were similar to those of Obama skeptics on both the left and right. Republicans suggested Obama should be doing more, such as declaring war on ISIL, while Democrats fear the measure is just political cover for a large-scale military incursion in the Middle East.  House Majority Whip Steve Scalise (R-La.) told reporters after the vote that Obama needs to do more in convincing Congress that there is a comprehensive administrative strategy in countering ISIL before this issue comes before lawmakers again in December, when the continuing resolution runs out. Congress will have to vote at that time to extend the training and weapons program as part of a larger annual debate over U.S. national security policy.  “[Obama] is going to have to report back to us on how the coalition is being built, how many troops, how much funding are those countries going to deliver and how is he going to do a vetting process to determine which Syrians to train,” Scalise said. “All of those things are all action items the president now has to go do but he has to report them back to Congress over the course of the next two months. I’d like to see the president lay out a broader plan.”  ( Also on POLITICO: Pelosi rejects talk of combat troops)  Rep. Patrick McHenry (R-N.C.), Scalise’s top deputy whip, admitted the Syria vote was tougher for members than the final tally may indicate.  “People looked at the same information and came to two different conclusions,” McHenry said. “There were reasonable disagreements in both parties about the president’s actions. And members on the Republican side would like to see a reasonable plan, not an action.” Even as the House was preparing to vote, the Obama administration was trying to defuse lawmakers’ concerns that this vote wouldn’t be the start of a third war in the Middle East for the United States in a 13-year span. In an appearance before the Senate Foreign Relations Committee on Wednesday, Secretary of State John Kerry insisted the administration isn’t sending ground troops to fight ISIL.  “U.S. ground troops will not be sent into combat in this conflict,” Kerry said. “Instead, they will support Iraq forces on the ground as they fight for their country.”  Boehner, House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi (D-Calif.), other party leaders, and top Republicans and Democrats on the national security committees all came out in support for Obama’s Syria plan. The president has spoken to several of these lawmakers personally to thank them for their efforts.  “This is important. This is urgent,” declared Pelosi. Pelosi’s support, as well as that from Minority Whip Steny Hoyer of Maryland and other top House Democrats, proved critical in the past few days. A number of House Democrats had been rattled by comments on Tuesday by Joint Chiefs of Staff Chairman Gen. Martin Dempsey, who suggested U.S. combat units may end up engaging ISIL directly if this effort fails. Dempsey later tried to walk back those remarks, but the damage had already been done inside the Democratic Caucus.  “The threat from ISIL is real,” insisted Reps. Nita Lowey and Steve Israel of New York, and Dutch Ruppersberger of Maryland in a letter to Democratic colleagues on Wednesday. “The vicious terrorist organization has beheaded two American journalists and a British aid worker and it threatens to harm more people. We must show ISIL that America will not stand for such brutality. ISIL must be stopped overseas before it has the chance to attack our homeland.”  Still, there is serious doubt that this mission will be effective in stopping a terrorist group that has beheaded three Westerners while seizing control of territory in Syria and western Iraq. Boehner and other Republicans have talked about widening the mission after the midterm elections. Pelosi, meanwhile, privately told Democrats that Obama isn’t asking to go to war.  Obama has used his authority under the 9/11 and Iraq War authorization resolutions — enacted in 2001 and 2002 — to launch dozens of U.S. airstrikes against ISIL fighters inside Iraq. But the White House says that Congress must approve the “Title X authority” in order for the Pentagon to begin vetting Syrian rebels for the new program.  The language on the Syrian rebels will be inserted into a must-pass government spending bill, which keeps federal workers on their jobs until Dec. 11.  The Obama administration will have to keep Congress fully apprised of how it intends to implement the training and equipment program for rebel groups. Fifteen days before any mission begins, the Pentagon will be required to report its plans to defense and intelligence committees. And every 90 days after the program starts, Congress must be updated by the administration. 
