    
On Wednesday, President Donald Trump teed off on Fox News over an appearance by Democratic National Committee spokeswoman Xochitl Hinojosa. | Carolyn Kaster/AP Photo President Donald Trump let loose on Fox News on Wednesday, saying the network "isn’t working for us anymore" while encouraging his followers to look for an alternative to his long-cherished cable news channel.
In a three-part Twitter attack, Trump escalated his feud that started earlier this year when the network started featuring more Democratic commentators and hosted a series of town halls with Democratic presidential candidates. On Wednesday Trump tee'd off on Fox News over an appearance by Democratic National Committee spokesperson Xochitl Hinojosa.
"Just watched @FoxNews heavily promoting the Democrats through their DNC Communications Director, spewing out whatever she wanted with zero pushback by anchor, @SandraSmithFox. Terrible considering that Fox couldn’t even land a debate, the Dems give them NOTHING! @CNN & @MSNBC are all in for the Open Border Socialists (or beyond)," Trump wrote. In a wide-ranging interview on the 2020 election with Fox News anchor Sandra Smith, Hinojosa took multiple swipes at the president, his field operation in 2016, and policies like border separations — but what seemed to provoke Trump was a reference to polling that shows him losing to Democratic front-runners in several battleground states. "Fox hires “give Hillary the questions” @donnabrazile, Juan Williams and low ratings Shep Smith. HOPELESS & CLUELESS! They should go all the way LEFT and I will still find a way to Win - That’s what I do, Win. Too Bad!" Trump continued, "I don’t want to Win for myself, I only want to Win for the people. The New @FoxNews is letting millions of GREAT people down! We have to start looking for a new News Outlet. Fox isn’t working for us anymore!"
Both Smith and Williams have landed in hot water with Trump in the past for critical coverage of the escalating trade war with China, references to unflattering polling numbers and other perceived transgressions. Trump tweeted in early August that the network is "different from what they used to be."
Some Fox hosts have closed ranks behind their employer in the face of Trump's criticism. "Fox News isn’t supposed to work for you," tweeted Brit Hume, a longtime political analyst with the network who has called out Trump in the past. Hinojosa hit back at the president later Wednesday morning in a tweet of her own. "Thanks for watching. It’s pronounced So-Chi, you know, like the city in Russia," she wrote. 
