The storm slammed the Virgin Islands and skirted Puerto Rico on Wednesday with high winds and drenching rains. By Monday, it could be threatening Florida as a Category 3 hurricane.Published Aug. 28, 2019Updated Aug. 29, 2019[Here is the latest coverage on Hurricane Dorian as it heads to Florida.]Here’s what you need to know:The storm moved through the Virgin Islands and dealt Puerto Rico a glancing blow.Parts of the U.S. Virgin Islands lost power and a curfew was imposed.At a resort in St. Thomas, surprise at the storm’s fury.Florida is bracing for Dorian to hit as a Category 3 hurricane over the holiday weekend.This is the busiest time of year for Atlantic hurricanes. Here’s why.ImageCredit...Cassandra Crichlow, via ReutersThe storm moved through the Virgin Islands and dealt Puerto Rico a glancing blow.Hurricane Dorian hit the United States Virgin Islands on Wednesday and then moved northwestward, where warm Atlantic waters were expected to strengthen it into a major storm threatening the Southeastern United States. The storm’s winds and heavy rains extended into the British Virgin Islands to the east and parts of Puerto Rico to the west, including the island municipality of Culebra. But the main island of Puerto Rico was spared a direct hit.The compact storm, which reached hurricane strength shortly before 2 p.m. Eastern time, has been maddeningly difficult to forecast, as tends to be the case with smaller, disorganized systems. The National Weather Service said Wednesday evening that Dorian was pushing northwestward, away from Puerto Rico and the Virgin Islands, and that conditions were expected to improve in those places overnight. But dangerous winds remained possible, forecasters said, and flash flooding would be a threat through Thursday morning. The Weather Service said the storm was likely to continue northwest for a time and then shift to a more westerly route toward the Bahamas and the United States mainland. But the specifics remained uncertain, and as of Wednesday evening, all of Florida’s east coast, along with part of Georgia, remained within the range of Dorian’s possible paths.Puerto Ricans had feared that Dorian would be the first real test of Puerto Rico’s revamped electrical grid. Hurricanes Irma and Maria in 2017 left the entire island without power. In some places, it took a year to restore electricity. The island’s electrical grid remains fragile and prone to power losses, though, and some power problems were reported on Wednesday afternoon. The authorities say they have more supplies on hand to make repairs now than they did in 2017. Unlike Maria, however, Dorian is bringing the island more rain than wind, according to the National Weather Service office in San Juan. “By now, everybody should be home,” Gov. Wanda Vázquez said in a news conference on Wednesday afternoon. “This is not Maria. What we need to do is protect ourselves from the rain.” Puerto Rico’s secretary of public safety, Elmer Román, urged residents to remain alert to danger after a man died on Wednesday in Bayamón, P.R. The man, who was 80, fell from a ladder as he tried to reach his roof to clear drains ahead of the storm, El Nuevo Día, Puerto Rico’s largest newspaper, reported.“Let’s not let our guard down,” Mr. Román said. Parts of the U.S. Virgin Islands lost power and a curfew was imposed.By Wednesday evening, with the worst of the hurricane pushing north, officials in the United States Virgin Islands said damage was widespread but far less severe than after Hurricanes Irma and Maria in 2017.“All indicators point to nothing near what we experienced then,” said Richard Motta, a spokesman for the territory’s governor.Mr. Motta said in a phone interview from St. Croix that crews were working to restore power and better understand the scope of the damage. Communications were still faulty in some places, but Mr. Motta said there were no immediate reports of deaths or major injuries in the territory.Dorian took the Virgin Islands somewhat by surprise after a late change in its path. Roy Watlington, a retired physics professor who lives on St. Thomas, said he had placed too much confidence in forecasts that showed Dorian taking a different path through the Caribbean. He raced to put up his shutters as the winds started building.“I think I know meteorology, so I was a little arrogant and I thought for sure it couldn’t make such a drastic shift,” said Mr. Watlington, whose mango tree lost its fruit but who avoided serious damage.The Virgin Islands had still not fully recovered from the 2017 storms, and Dorian renewed those unpleasant memories. “I think one of the main factors is that we’re all dealing with a little PTSD, so there’s a lot of anxiety,” said Danna Brosius, who was staying inside her home on St. Croix to comply with the territory-wide curfew.Stacey Plaskett, the Virgin Islands’ delegate to Congress, described seeing swaying trees and dark skies on St. Croix in an interview earlier Wednesday. She said some people in the territory had been staying with friends or relatives because their own homes still had damage from the previous hurricanes. “Although this is not a large hurricane, we’re in such a compromised position as it is,” Ms. Plaskett said.Gov. Albert Bryan Jr. of the United States Virgin Islands issued a territory-wide curfew that took effect at noon and extends through 6 a.m. Thursday. The Virgin Islands Water and Power Authority said Wednesday evening that crews were restoring power in areas of St. Thomas that were blacked out by the hurricane, and were checking the electrical grid for damage throughout the islands. The agency said that many customers retained service during the storm.Some of the private schools on the island had been scheduled to open for the academic year on Wednesday, but the storm prompted them to postpone opening. Officials had already been concerned about whether the schools were ready to open, and now may need to re-evaluate them after the weather settles down.ImageCredit...Gabriella N. Baez/ReutersAt a resort in St. Thomas, surprise at the storm’s fury.Lorie Leonard, a manager at the Bolongo Bay Beach Resort on St. Thomas, said she and other employees were stunned by the power of the hurricane as it passed over the island. Palm trees toppled near the resort’s pool, she said, and fans crashed to the floor of its restaurant. Tree branches smashed into cars, and all the sand on the resort’s beach was washed away.“It’s a mess,” Ms. Leonard repeated breathlessly in a telephone interview Wednesday evening. “It was a lot of destruction in a very short period of time. It’s just crazy.”The storm’s shift away from early forecasts of a more westward path caught the resort flat-footed, she said. “They kept saying ‘Puerto Rico, Puerto Rico,’ but it was a direct hit on St. Thomas,” Ms. Leonard said. “We had nothing put away except our boat.”By about 5:45 p.m. Wednesday, the storm had largely passed, and a light rain was falling on the resort. Inside, it was all hands on deck, Ms. Leonard said. Employees and the hotel’s owners were trying to push floodwater out of the hotel building and were scrambling to get dinner prepared for the resort’s 62 guests, who had hustled to their rooms at the last minute as the storm bore down. Everyone came through safely, she said, but a bit shaken up. “It was that fast, that traumatic, that quick,” Ms. Leonard said. Florida is bracing for Dorian to hit as a Category 3 hurricane over the holiday weekend.With all of Florida’s east coast inside the cone of Dorian’s potential path, officials in the state spent Wednesday watching the forecast nervously and encouraging residents to prepare for the storm, which could arrive as a Category 3 hurricane.Gov. Ron DeSantis declared a state of emergency Wednesday afternoon, and advised Floridians to have seven days’ worth of supplies on hand. In St. Cloud, Fla., and Camden County, Ga., officials began distributing sandbags. In Orange County, Fla., firefighters added metal shutters to their stations. And in Cocoa, Fla., city crews cleaned out storm drains.Ken Graham, the director of the National Hurricane Center, said the recent forecast shows that there is “the potential for a major hurricane on the Southeast coast, throughout Florida.”Dorian is currently expected to reach land in Florida around 8 a.m. on Monday, but the storm’s movements have been difficult to predict with precision, and forecasters said the range of possible landing zones is wide, anywhere from the southern tip of Florida through the northern edge of the Georgia coast. Storm-force winds could come ashore sooner — perhaps as early as Saturday night — and may extend north through the South Carolina coast.“That’s when you need to have things wrapped up, because it’s too dangerous to be outside,” Mr. Graham said. “You need to be prepared by then. Get your plans together.” Mayor Lenny Curry of Jacksonville, a city that sustained heavy damage from flooding two years ago during Hurricane Irma, said the city was “a day or two” away from making a decision about whether to call for evacuations. The mayor said he did not know whether the football game between Florida State and Boise State, scheduled for Saturday evening in Jacksonville, would go ahead.Regarding the storm, he said: “We’ve done this before. We’ve been through this together. This is no time to panic.”In Miami-Dade County, Mayor Carlos Gimenez told residents who live in areas threatened by storm surge to fill their gas tanks and have an exit plan in case evacuations are ordered. He said the county had been in discussions about possibly opening shelters, but no decision had been made. For now, Mr. Gimenez said, it remained a waiting game. The county government was operating mostly as normal, and a Rolling Stones concert planned for the holiday weekend remained on the schedule.“There’s no reason to cancel anything at this point,” Mr. Gimenez said. “We don’t know exactly where this storm is going. We don’t know what the impacts are going to be.”This is the busiest time of year for Atlantic hurricanes. Here’s why.Hurricane season in the Atlantic, including the Caribbean and the Gulf of Mexico, generally runs from June 1 to Nov. 30 each year, though storms occasionally develop out of season.The period between mid-August through mid-October is the most active time of the season. Surface air temperatures tend to peak near the end of summer, ocean waters remain warm well into the autumn, and there is more moisture in the atmosphere at this time of year, providing the building blocks for a hurricane.Atlantic tropical storms can form in many different places, from the Cape Verde Islands to the western reaches of the Gulf of Mexico; the likeliest spots vary depending on the month, according to the National Hurricane Center — and so do the tracks they are likely to follow afterward, though some storms may wander far from the average path.In August and September, the peak part of the season, many storms will follow the east-to-west path that Dorian is currently on.At other times of year, the storms are often slowed and deflected by increasing wind shear — sharp changes in wind direction at different altitudes — and by colder water temperatures, he said.Storm-wary Puerto Ricans prepared early.On Wednesday morning, Lourdes López, 44, filled gasoline containers with her husband, Juan Ortega, 46, at a filling station in the quiet streets of San Juan.“In case the power goes out, for the generator,” she said. Two years ago, Hurricane Maria blew the zinc roof off their home. “But this time, we’re set,” Ms. López said. Some 30,000 people still have blue tarps as roofs, according to Carlos A. Acevedo Caballero, director of Puerto Rico’s Bureau for Emergency and Disaster Management. Hurricane Maria lead to the deaths of an estimated 2,975 people.Mayor María E. Meléndez of Ponce, on the south side of the island, was at her city’s emergency operations center until almost midnight on Tuesday, worried about what residents might need in the event of a storm surge, flooding or a blackout.Ms. Meléndez said many people were calm because Dorian had initially approached the island as a tropical storm. “Mayors are not. As we say, the electric grid is held together with tape.” ImageCredit...Erika P. Rodriguez for The New York TimesPresident Trump continued his long-running dispute with Puerto Rico’s leaders.As Dorian approached Puerto Rico, President Trump continued his long-running verbal war with the island’s leaders on Wednesday in a series of Twitter messages. A day earlier, Mr. Trump approved a request for an emergency declaration, authorizing federal coordination of relief efforts and assistance.“Puerto Rico is one of the most corrupt places on earth,” Mr. Trump said in one post. “Their political system is broken and their politicians are either Incompetent or Corrupt.”He singled out Mayor Carmen Yulín Cruz of San Juan, with whom he sparred repeatedly after Hurricane Maria shredded parts of the island in 2017. Ms. Cruz responded with a Twitter post of her own.Even after the emergency declaration, federal money for hurricane preparations remained an issue.Democrats in Washington criticized the Department of Homeland Security on Tuesday for transferring more than $150 million from the Federal Emergency Management Agency’s disaster relief fund to pay for temporary immigration courts at the southwest border. And the Trump administration said this month that it would delay about $9 billion in disaster prevention funds intended for Puerto Rico and the United States Virgin Islands, citing concerns over fiscal management.Ms. Plaskett, the Virgin Islands’ delegate to Congress, said on Wednesday that it was unfair to lump the Virgin Islands in with Puerto Rico, and said she was worried that the United States was forgetting about the islands she represents.“We try to work with the federal government and not make waves, and it feels like it’s for naught,” she said. “We have a saying in the Virgin Islands that a closed mouth doesn’t get fed, but maybe making noise is the right thing to do.”VideotranscripttranscriptIs Climate Change Making Hurricanes Worse? Yes, Here’s WhyRising ocean temperatures have fueled some of the most devastating storms in recent years. Kendra Pierre-Louis, a reporter on The New York Times’s climate team, explains how.Strong winds, deadly storm surges and a trail of destruction. Recent hurricanes have wreaked havoc in the United States. And you might be wondering, how does a hurricane work? So, the important thing to understand about hurricanes is that they only form over warm water. Think of warm water as the fuel to the engine that is a hurricane. A hurricane forms when warm air over the ocean rises. As that warm air rises, cool air sort of fills in below it, kind of creating that cyclonic action. At the top, it forms clouds, and those clouds create the rain system that we associate with hurricanes. So, many people are wondering, is climate change making hurricanes worse? Yes. Remember we talked about how warm water is the fuel for a hurricane? Because of climate change, the oceans are much warmer than they used to be. In recent years, we’ve seen very powerful hurricanes like Harvey and Florence. And the obvious question is, what do they have in common? Both of these hurricanes formed in unusually warm waters. Hurricane Harvey formed in waters around the Gulf of Mexico that were, on average, about 1 degree Celsius warmer than average. So, that’s a lot more energy going into the storm. So, does this mean we’re going to have more storms like this? The short answer is yes. The longer answer is storms like this are even worse. There’s some talk about potentially raising the hurricane category scale to include a 6 for stronger winds than we currently have. There is some concern or some evidence suggesting that hurricanes are moving further north. So, that means they’re going to show up in places that they haven’t traditionally existed and, potentially, even in places like Europe. When there’s a hurricane, when there’s a wildfire, climate change often comes up. But climate change is our new reality. And if we don’t take steps to mitigate it, we will continue to see powerful, severe hurricanes. And more and more people are going to be put in harm’s way.Rising ocean temperatures have fueled some of the most devastating storms in recent years. Kendra Pierre-Louis, a reporter on The New York Times’s climate team, explains how.In Puerto Rico, operators say the 911 phone system is not ready for a disaster.During Hurricane Maria, Puerto Rico’s emergency communications system widely failed. Most people on the island could not even try to call 911, because landlines and cell service had been knocked out. Those could get through faced long waits for emergency workers and ambulances to arrive, because the dispatchers could not communicate with police stations.The Communications Workers of Puerto Rico union says that Puerto Rico has yet to invest in upgrades to the system that failed so miserably. The government has not purchased the technology that would allow a 911 dispatcher to pinpoint a caller’s location, and has not replaced the dozens of dispatchers who have quit and left the island since 2017, according to Aramis Cruz, president of the local union.The government did buy satellite phones for police, fire and ambulance stations, but Mr. Cruz said the 911 operators have yet to be given the numbers of those phones. “They are scrambling right now to get us those,” Mr. Cruz said.The lack of prompt ambulance service has been cited as one reason for the soaring death toll in Puerto Rico in the months after Hurricane Maria. George Washington University researchers estimated that as many as 3,000 more people died on the island in that period than would have been expected in normal conditions. The communication workers’ union says the government diverted funds from the 911 system for other uses, leaving the system unable to fill vacancies or buy the right technology. Mr. Cruz said the agency also lacks up-to-date maps. The ones it is using date from 2010, he said, and do not include many newer highways and subdivisions. If someone calls 911 from one development built in the last five years, he said, “I look at my computer, and it shows a mountain.” The Puerto Rico Department of Public Safety did not respond to several telephone and email messages left on Tuesday and Wednesday seeking comment.Adeel Hassan, Zolan Kanno-Youngs, Frances Robles, Alejandra Rosa and Freeman Rogers contributed reporting. 