  
updated 8:31 PM EST, Fri November 7, 2014 
Loretta Lynch is a U.S. attorney in Brooklyn whom President Obama will nominate to become the next attorney general; Loretta Lynn is a coal miner's daughter and country music legend. Washington (CNN) -- At first glance, it looked like President Barack Obama was pandering to country music lovers everywhere.
Obama moved to fill his administration's open attorney general post on Friday by nominating Loretta Lynch, the U.S. attorney in Brooklyn and definitely not a recording artist.
But many people thought they'd heard or read Loretta Lynn, the country music singer. Confusion quickly took hold on Twitter. Then came the jokes. Here are some of the best tweets about Loretta Lynn -- er, Lynch -- er ... you know what we mean.
Thousands of grandparents visibly relieved that Pres. Obama has nominated country music legend Loretta Lynn to be our next Attorney General.— YOUNG MT (@MXTracy66) November 7, 2014 What a career for Loretta Lynn: one of country music's most accomplished recording artists, and now about to be Attorney General. Congrats.— Will Bardwell (@willbardwell) November 7, 2014 If we are going to have Loretta Lynn as Attorney General, can we PLEASE have @willienelson for Sec. of Agriculture?— Paul Begala (@PaulBegala) November 7, 2014 We'll have to get used to thinking for just a second, every time, that Loretta Lynn is attorney general. (And, would that be so bad?)— Frida Ghitis (@FridaGhitis) November 7, 2014 loretta lynn to be nominated for attorney general?? it's a transparent pander to the NASCAR crowd. i don't see it working for obama at all.— Mad Man (@SOMAMadman) November 7, 2014 OMG Loretta Lynn is going to be Attorney General!!! Does that mean Conway Twitty is Speaker Pro Tempore? #coalminerslawyer— tedalexandre (@tedalexandre) November 7, 2014 Thrilled that Obama chose Loretta Lynn as next Attorney General. Don't come home a-drinkin with lovin on your mind -- or DOJ will intervene— Mo Rocca (@MoRocca) November 7, 2014
The timing of the unusual attention is working well for the country star. Fresh off a Wednesday night performance at the Country Music Awards, she also announced a new multi-album recording deal this week.   
