DALLAS — Former president George W. Bush, who has written a book he calls "a love letter" to his father (that would be former president George H.W. Bush), also has a message in mind for brother Jeb.Run."I think he'd be a superb president and I think he'd be a very good candidate and I think he could heal wounds," Bush told USA TODAY in an interview Friday about 41: A Portrait of My Father, being published Tuesday by Crown Publishers. "Dad very much wants him to run," though he acknowledges, "Mother, of course, has had a different point of view."The 294-page book, which offers an affectionate and anecdotal account of the elder Bush's rise in politics and tenure as the nation's 41st president, underscores the historic status the Bush dynasty already has achieved. John Adams and John Quincy Adams, from the republic's early days, are the only other father-and-son to have both won the White House.A successful bid by former Florida governor Jeb Bush, who says he's now weighing whether to seek the presidency himself in 2016, would break ground.Speaking of unprecedented: That also might set up a family rematch from 1992, when then-Arkansas Gov. Bill Clinton ousted George H.W. Bush from the White House. This time, spouse Hillary Rodham Clinton is the favorite for the Democratic nomination, and son Jeb Bush instantly would become one of the most serious contenders for the Republican one.The complications don't end there.In the book, Bush describes the deep sadness his father felt after losing his campaign for a second term in 1992 — followed, unexpectedly, by a friendship that developed between him and Clinton, whose father had been killed in a car accident before he was born."Many who watched the relationship would say that in some ways Dad's like a father figure to him," Bush says, calling the bond between the two formal rivals "very poignant." Says Bush: "I think Bill found in George Bush a person that he could trust and an older person with whom he could relax and have confidence in."Even so, he says the Bush clan would feel no need to pull their punches against Hillary Clinton in a campaign."I'd be all out" in campaigning for Jeb, Bush vows. "If he wants me to, I'd be helping him as best I can. And I think Bill Clinton would be all in, obviously, for his bride."He says some of the so-called Bush fatigue and the pitched debate over the wisdom of the Iraq War, factors that might have dogged a campaign by Jeb Bush in 2008 and 2012, have eased. "Time fades a lot of memory, and the emotions get wrung out of the system," he says. "The new president comes and there's a lot of focus on him. It's kind of like Dad, you know. With time, people are taking a second look at him, a different appreciation of his contributions and how he conducted his life."Indeed, a Gallup Poll in June found the elder Bush lagging only Clinton in favorable ratings among living former and current presidents, at 64% and 63%. The younger Bush ranked next, at 53%, ahead of Jimmy Carter (52%) and Barack Obama (47%).IN DEFENSE OF DADGeorge W. Bush got the idea of writing 41 when he learned that John Quincy Adams, to the dismay of historians, had never written a book about his father."He did start to write such a book about his father and his relationship with his father, but he could not complete it," says Fred Kaplan, a professor emeritus at the City University of New York and author of John Quincy Adams: American Visionary, published by HarperCollins in May. "He had a deep, deep devotion to his father's memory, and especially to the great accomplishments of his father."John Quincy Adams also felt his father wasn't getting the credit he deserved, Kaplan says.All that sounds familiar to Bush, whose admiration for his father is open and emotional. He argues his father's contribution to the country, including his role in the peaceful end of the Cold War, hasn't yet been fully acknowledged.One reason might be the elder Bush's decision not to write a traditional presidential memoir when he left office in 1993. He did co-author a book on global challenges in 1999 with his former national security adviser, Brent Scowcroft, titled A World Transformed, and a compilation of his letters was published last year.Bush speculates that his father didn't write a more personal memoir because of his reluctance to do anything that might sound like what his mother decried as braggadocio and because he didn't want to re-live the painful days of the 1992 election, when many voters saw him as insensitive or unaware of their economic anxieties."I'm confident that he will get credit as time goes on," Bush says. "I just want to be the first one out of the barn. I think people will look back and say what a good man George Bush was."What many don't realize, he says, is what a risk taker his father has been throughout his life. A child of privilege, he enlisted in the Navy at age 18 to fight in World War II, then turned down invitations from Wall Street when he finally graduated from Yale. Instead, he and wife Barbara moved, young George in tow, to pursue business opportunities in the wilds of west Texas.He took an unlikely path to the White House, his son notes, holding a succession of four jobs that no other president has held, before or since: national party chairman, United Nations ambassador, top diplomat to China, CIA director.Through it all, the elder Bush demonstrated an impulse to reach out to former enemies in a way that seems particularly remarkable at a time of today's poisonous partisanship. Years after the Reagan-Bush ticket won re-election in 1984, Bush and his vanquished vice-presidential rival, then-New York Congresswoman Geraldine Ferraro, became friends. "I hope it's OK if I say I love you," he told her in an e-mail shortly before she died in 2011.In 2000, after the torturous presidential campaign had been settled in his son's favor by a 5-4 Supreme Court decision, Bush made a conciliatory phone call to the defeated Al Gore, the book reports. "I've lost a few times myself," he told him, "and I know how you feel."Indeed, Bush as president decided to attend the funeral of Japanese Emperor Hirohito, even though his forces had shot him down over the Pacific in World War II. He became friends with Clinton after losing the White House to him. Just about the only person he seems not to have forgiven is Ross Perot, blamed by both father and son for siphoning off enough votes as a third-party candidate in 1992 to have cost the elder Bush a second term.'TELL ME ABOUT IT'Since Tuesday's midterms, the younger Bush has felt empathy of his own for his successor in the White House.President Obama watched his fellow Democrats lose control of the Senate, giving opposition Republicans unified control of Congress for the final two years of his tenure. That's precisely what happened to Bush in 2006, the sixth-year midterm of his presidency, when his fellow Republicans lost the Senate and opposition Democrats won control of Congress. Indeed, the same thing happened to Ronald Reagan in 1986, his sixth-year midterm."There's a reality about every two-term presidency: Toward its end, Americans grow weary of the president," Bush writes in the book, adding in parentheses, "(Tell me about it!)""I remember the 2006 campaign well and people were used to the president; they weren't excited about the agenda so much; they were beginning to think about who's going to be on our TV screens next," he recalls in the interview. (The Iraq War also had become deeply unpopular.) "It doesn't matter who the person is. There's a certain: 'Surely, we can do better.'"Since leaving the Oval Office, Bush generally has refused to critique Obama as president. In the book, Bush writes only that he was "disappointed" when Obama decided not to retain CIA Director Michael Hayden in the job when he took over. He also expresses regret that "subsequent developments and decisions" after he left office contributed to the rise of the terror group Islamic State in Iraq and Syria, imperiling Iraq's struggling democracy."For the sake of our security and the Iraqi people, I hope we will do what it takes to succeed," he writes. In the interview, though, he declines to discuss precisely what that might entail. "I'm not going to second-guess our president," he says.That was a policy the elder Bush seems to have followed during his son's presidency, even during deliberations over Iraq. Some analysts contrasted the elder Bush's caution during the first Gulf War, when Iraqi forces were ousted from Kuwait, with the younger Bush's decision to launch a U.S.-led invasion to depose Saddam Hussein. He cited the threat from weapons of mass destruction that in the end weren't found, and the U.S. involvement in Iraq continues even now. Obama announced Friday he was doubling the small U.S. deployment there, sending 1,500 more U.S. troops to help deal with the Islamic State threat.On this and other issues, Bush says he had learned lessons from watching his father. But he rarely asked him for his views, and the elder Bush offered him no policy advice but unconditional love.That said, Bush does offer some advice to Obama or any two-term president on how to handle the final two years of a tumultuous tenure, when your approval rating is falling and the political landscape is a less friendly place."You've got to pick and choose your issues that are important to you and work as best as you can with the Congress," he says. "In other words, people have got to know you're going to make a good-faith effort, but on certain cases stand firm."He cautions that unexpected developments could change things in an instant — as the financial meltdown in 2008 dominated his final months in office. "You never know what's going to affect the last two years of President Obama's presidency," he says.Bush also advises Obama to be ready for a tough transition when he leaves the White House."I'm confident all presidents go through a let-down period; it's impossible not to," Bush says. He wrote a memoir titled Decision Points, established a presidential library and foundation on the campus of Southern Methodist University, and unexpectedly took up painting. "My advice is to find interests, things that will keep you occupied and interested, and do it."BOOSTING BOOK SALESAt 68, Bush's physical resemblance to his father has only gotten more striking over time. He poses in the courtyard of The George W. Bush Presidential Library and Museum in front of bronze statues of the two of them, standing side by side. "I used to say I had my daddy's eyes and my mother's mouth, which is really true," he says, a reference to his tendency to wisecrack.On Tuesday at The George Bush Presidential Library and Museum in College Station, on the campus of Texas A&M, he formally will present his father with a copy of the book. At 90, the elder Bush uses a wheelchair and has been in fragile health, and the family was braced for his death during an extended hospitalization in December 2012.The younger Bush had begun writing the book by then."At first, I was thinking about publishing it after he moved, and I decided this is such a love story that I wanted to publish it before he passed on," Bush says. At the event, he plans to tell him, "It's a love story about you, Dad, and I hope people read it." He jokes that he wants to boost book sales "for two reasons: One I want them to get to know you better. And two, it helps with the pension."Follow @susanpage on Twitter.