    It seems clear that Brennan has the support to be confirmed. | John Shinkle/POLITICO Bipartisan agreement isn’t common on Capitol Hill these days, but John Brennan brought senators together at his CIA director confirmation hearing — to express their anger at years of intelligence stonewalling from presidents of both parties.  Twelve years into the war on terror, a largely complacent Congress and its Senate Intelligence Committee finally seemed to have found its voice. Brennan had the misfortune of being the one on the other side of the table when they did.  ( PHOTOS: John Brennan’s confirmation hearing)  It seemed clear by the end of the session that Brennan had the support to be confirmed, but it was equally clear that senators are so angry with the Obama administration over questions of access to information about drone policies, Benghazi and other topics that the CIA nominee may have to wait for some of the questions to be sorted before being confirmed by the full Senate.  Here’s POLITICO’s top takeaways from Brennan’s grilling:  Senators were looking for a piñata  For hours, Brennan was battered by senators with long-standing grievances with the CIA or the Obama administration, even though many of the complaints had little or nothing to do with him.  ( Also on POLITICO: Senate pounds Brennan on CIA ‘trust-deficit’)  Brennan tried to head off some of the complaints by saying in his opening statement that he’d learned there was a “trust deficit” between the CIA and the Senate. He called that “wholly unacceptable.”  “I like to think that my candor and bluntness will reassure you that you will get straight answers from me, maybe not always the ones you like but you will get answers and they will reflect my honest views,” he said.  Sen. Barbara Mikulski (D-Md.) made clear that there was a lot of work to do after decades of directors she said misled her or obstructed her requests.  “With the exception of Mr. Panetta, I feel I’ve been jerked around by every CIA director,” Mikulski said, a list that would include not just Bush-era directors like Porter Goss and George Tenet but also perhaps Obama appointee David Petraeus.  If White House officials thought President Barack Obama’s belated decision Wednesday to allow intelligence committees access to classified Justice Department legal memos that justified drone strikes against American terror suspects abroad would appease the committee, that was clearly a miscalculation.  Instead, it seemed to have provoked them. Senators opened the session with a flurry of complaints. They challenged Brennan about why senators’ staff couldn’t look at the documents.  “Our staff was banned from seeing it … this is upsetting to a number of members,” an irritated Chairman Dianne Feinstein (D-Calif.) declared. And the committee insisted that the two opinions they were shown were not enough: Eight additional opinions were demanded.  “We’ve got to see any and all of those legal opinions … before the vote,” Sen. Ron Wyden (D-Ore.) said.  Wyden’s wasn’t the only threat.  Republican senators said they were intent on using Brennan’s nomination to demand documents and emails about the administration’s handling of the attack on the Benghazi, Libya, Consulate last September that killed four Americans, including the ambassador.  “It is absolutely essential that the documents this committee has requested be supplied before the confirmation move forward,” said Sen. Richard Burr of North Carolina. Burr quickly added though that he hoped Brennan wouldn’t take it personally. “I’m not saying you were part of it,” the senator said.  Brennan said the decisions on OLC memos and Benghazi documents weren’t his to make, but he hinted to the senators that he’s always favored greater disclosure to the public and the Hill committees.  “I will certainly be an advocate for making sure this committee has the documents it needs in order to provide its oversight function,” he declared. “I have been an advocate of that position and I will continue to be.”  Drones are here to stay  The hearing began with protesters from the liberal group CodePink repeatedly interrupting until Feinstein suspended proceedings to have nearly all members of the public removed from the room.  Brennan made clear he is pained by the criticism and the suggestion that the administration is cavalier in its handling of the armed drone program.  “The people who are standing here today I think they have a misunderstanding of what we do in government, the care taken, the agony we go through,” Brennan said. “People are reacting to a lot of falsehoods that are out there.”  However, Brennan had few answers for Wyden, who has led the charge in demanding information and raising concerns about the drone program — particularly when it targets Americans.  Wyden asked how much evidence the president needs to use lethal force against a U.S. citizen and whether an American should be asked to surrender before he or she is targeted.  Brennan was respectful but suggested there’s little point in telling Al Qaeda leaders to surrender. “An American who joins Al Qaeda will know full well that they have joined an organization at war with the United States … They can surrender at any time,” he said. For all the questions about safeguards, no one on the committee said they were opposed to the drone program — and some came to its defense.  However, after the hearing Feinstein told journalists she was unaware of reports that in some instances U.S. officials assumed any male of fighting age killed in a strike was a combatant — a method that could undercount the number of civilian deaths.  Brennan said he favored the U.S. making a public statement when it made a mistake in a drone strike, but he never explained how one could do that and keep such strikes officially classified.  Feinstein said the administration’s insistence on secrecy was undermining its ability to defend the effort. “I think that rationale Mr. Brennan has long gone … I think it’s very important that we share this data with people,” she said.  One subject some senators seemed keen on was the idea of a court that could review whether Americans belonged on a so-called kill list.  “Having the executive be the prosecutor, the judge, the jury and executioner all in one is very contrary to the traditions and the laws of this country,” Sen. Angus King (I-Maine) said. “If you’re planning a strike over a period of days, weeks or months, there is an opportunity to go to someone outside the executive branch, a body like a [Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act] court in a top-secret way and make the case that this individual is an enemy combatant.”  Brennan called the suggestion “certainly worthy of discussion” and said the administration had “wrestled with this,” but he also suggested designating someone as an enemy and an ongoing threat isn’t much like what courts normally do.  The campaign is over, but attacking Obama for leaks is not  The sharpest questions about Brennan’s own conduct came on the issue of a flurry of leaks of national security secrets last year.  Brennan found himself under fire for a briefing he conducted last May for TV commentators as a story was breaking about a foiled Al Qaeda-linked plot in Yemen to blow up airlines bound for the U.S. Press reports about a U.S. double agent inside the operation may have caused the operation to be shut down prematurely.  After Brennan admitted that he’d told the commentators that the U.S. had “inside control” of the operation, Sen. Jim Risch (R-Idaho) had a Sherlock Holmes moment.  “It seems to me the leak the Justice Department is looking for is right here in front of us?”  “I disagree vehemently,” Brennan shot back. “In my discussion with those individuals that night, it already was out in the press,” the White House counterterrorism adviser said, though it was unclear whether he meant the plot itself had been reported or the presence of an agent on the inside.  Brennan also acknowledged that he’d been interviewed by criminal investigators probing that leak but said his lawyer was told he was just a witness — not a subject or target of the investigation, two labels that can signify greater legal trouble. Brennan insisted that “inside control” didn’t amount to a signal to the press that there was necessarily a double agent, but that there were other ways to be sure an operation wouldn’t do harm. (At least one of the commentators on the call that day seemed to interpret it that way.)  “It means any number of things … It does not reveal any classified information,” Brennan said during questioning later by Sen. Dan Coats (R-Ind.). “Unfortunately, there was a hemorrhaging of information and leaks … I’m very comfortable with what I did and what I said at that time,” the nominee added.  “That inside control was interpreted as meaning we got somebody inside and as a result of that, the covert action operation had to be dissolved,” Coats said.  That led Brennan to warn Coats that he was straying into a classified area, even as he decried the leak. “I must caution that some elements of this event that remain classified and that we cannot talk about in public,” Brennan said.  Torture remains bitter topic  Part of the committee’s walk down memory lane Thursday involved questioning Brennan about what he knew, said and did — or failed to do — about harsh interrogation tactics like waterboarding employed during the Bush administration. Brennan was the CIA’s deputy executive director at the time the program was devised and during most of the time it was used.  Democrats seemed eager to prove that the techniques were a failure, while Republicans sought to suggest that Brennan hadn’t done much to prevent the use of techniques he now condemns.  “I did not take steps to stop the CIA’s use of those techniques … I was not in the chain of command of that program,” Brennan said under questioning by Intelligence Committee Vice Chairman Saxby Chambliss (R-Ga.), who said Brennan had received at least 50 emails about the interrogations. “I was aware of program. I was cc’d on some of those documents, but I had no oversight of it…. I did not try to stop it because it was something being done in a different part of the agency under authority of others.”  Brennan said he had private conversations with others at the agency about his opposition to some of the techniques, but he did not name any of the colleagues he shared those views with.  “We just have not seen anybody come forward who ever heard any objection from you,” Chambliss said.  Brennan acknowledged that after he left the CIA, he defended the program to a degree and said it produced useful intelligence that saved lives. However, he said after reading parts of a still-classified, 6,000-page investigation the Senate intelligence panel completed in December, that he may have been mistaken or deceived about the program’s utility.  “There clearly were a number of things I read in that report that were concerning and disturbing to me,” Brennan said. “It was rather damning in a lot of its language,” he said.  Brennan resisted Sen. Carl Levin’s attempts to get him to agree that waterboarding is torture. “I have personal opinions that’s reprehensible and something that should not be done,” he said, before adding he isn’t a lawyer and labeling it that way can have political and legal consequences.  However, a few minutes later when Sen. Martin Heinrich (D-N.M.) asked Brennan if he still held a view he expressed in a 2007 CBS interview that waterboarding is torture, the nominee said that’s still his view. 
