As the big red wave swept the Republicans into control of the Senate, the White House remained largely mum. That will change Wednesday afternoon when President Obama emerges to address the new political landscape for his final two years in office.The president, still weighed down by a popularity rating in the low 40% range in public polls, also invited House and Senate leaders of both parties to a meeting Friday at the White House to discuss the road ahead.White House press spokesman Josh Earnest announced the news conference -- scheduled for 2:50 p.m. ET -- on Twitter.From the Republican side, which wrested more than enough seats needed to claim the Senate leadership mantle and tighten its hold on the House, the first words promised an end to gridlock."We have an obligation to work together on issues where we agree," Sen. Mitch McConnell, R-Ky., majority-leader-in-waiting said on winning his re-election. "Just because we have a two-party system doesn't mean we have to be in perpetual conflict."McConnell scheduled a news conference for 2 p.m. ET.Republican House Speaker John Boehner, whose Republican majority swelled even larger, said he was humbled the by voters' trust, but noted it is "not a time for celebrate.""It's time for government to start getting results," he said.Even Senate Democratic leader Harry Reid, shorn of his majority control, said in a statement that "the message from voters is clear: they want us to work together.''With the red tide looming, White House press secretary Josh Earnest was asked whether the country should expect more vetoes."It depends on what the Senate and House decide to pass," he said. "House Republicans have amassed a pretty strong track record of legislation that's not in the best interests of middle-class families, and that's something that's been discussed on the campaign trail quite a bit."There were 36 Senate races on the ballot, but fewer than a dozen were the most competitive and the focus of both parties' efforts in an election season that saw more than $4 billion spent on campaigns for Congress.In the Republican sweep, some ballot issues seemed to cut the other way, however, with the Democratic-friendly issue of raising the minimum wage winning handily in three states -- Arkansas, Nebraska, and South Dakota -- and leading in Alaska.Voters in Washington, D.C., and Oregon passed proposals to legalize the use of marijuana and the issue was leading in Alaska. In Florida, a majority of voters backed legalizing marijuana for medical purposes, but that was not enough to top the 60 percent threshold needed to amend the constitution.Overall, many voters cited discontent with the economy or the direction of the country, a bad sign for Democrats. But there was unhappiness with incumbents generally and lack of direction.McConnell hoped to build on that by framing the political debate head."It's time to turn this country around," he said. :"It's about a government that people no longer trust to carry out its most basic duties."In an interview with Time magazine on the eve of the election, the Kentucky Republican said expected early votes on approving the Keystone XL pipeline, repealing the medical device tax in the Affordable Care Act, and "trying to get rid of the individual mandate" in the health care law. "These are the kinds of things that I believe there is a bipartisan majority in the Senate to approve," he said.As for shutting downe the government, he told Time."No. There is no possibility of a government shutdown. Remember me? I'm the guy that gets us out of government shutdowns."Asked about how to deal legislatively with the fact that GOP has eight members up for re-election in Blue state, he said, "The first thing we need to do is be a constructive, right of center governing majority in the House and Senate."The Republican victory in the Senate was echoed at the state level, with GOP governors Scott Walker in Wisconsin and Rick Scott in Florida winning re-election over strong Democratic challenges, and Republican Larry Hogan, in a stunning upset, taking the Maryland governorship.Even embattled Kansas Gov. Sam Brownback hung onto his job in a race that Democrats thought was within their grasp.Nearly every race that was in doubt fell the Republicans' way. In Kansas, embattled GOP Sen. Pat Roberts survived a strong challenge from Greg Orman, an independent backed by Democrats.In West Virginia, Republican Rep. Shelley Moore Capito won the seat of retiring Democratic Sen. Jay Rockefeller, completing the state's steady drift to the GOP column in recent elections. She called her victory "a turning point'' for West Virginia."It's the first time in 60 years we have sent a Republican to the U.S. Senate,'' Capito said. She is also the first woman the state has elected to the U.S. Senate.In Arkansas, Republican Tom Cotton ousted Democratic Sen. Mark Pryor. In South Dakota, Republican Mike Rounds defeated Democrat Rick Weiland and an independent campaign by former GOP senator Larry Pressler.In Montana, Republican Steve Daines easily defeated Democrat Amanda Curtis. And in Colorado, Republican Rep. Cory Gardner tossed out Democratic Sen. Mark Udall.In one of the most closely watched races, Democratic Sen. Kay Hagan narrowly lost a close fight with Republican Thom Tillis, speaker of the state House.And in Iowa, Republican Joni Ernst, whose TV ads touted her experience castrating pigs, won a Senate seat previously held by Democrats. "We are headed to Washington and we are going to make 'em squeal,'' she said.In state after state, Democratic hopes fizzled, with Republican David Perdue defeating Democrat Michelle Nunn in Georgia to succeed retiring GOP Sen. Saxby Chambliss.In a major upset, Republican Charlie Baker handed Democrat Martha Coakley her second defeat in a statewide campaign in the race for governor of dark blue Massachusetts.Democratic bright spots were few and far between. Sen. Jeanne Shaheen of New Hampshire fought off a challenge from Republican Scott Brown, a former senator from neighboring Massachusetts while in Pennsylvania, Democrat Tom Wolf defeated the Republican incumbent Gov. Tom Corbett. In Colorado, Gov. John Hickenlooper squeaked out a second term.Some elections seemed almost pro forma, reflecting a state's one-party dominance. Democratic governors Andrew Cuomo of New York and Jerry Brown of California were re-elected, as expected. In Texas, Republican Greg Abbott easily won the governor's race over Democrat Wendy Davis to succeed Rick Perry.Some elections, though, remained undecided. The race for the Senate in Louisiana was headed for a December runoff, with neither incumbent Mary Landrieu, a Democrat, or her challengers winning more than 50 per cent of the vote. And in Virginia, Democratic Sen. Mark Warner awoke Wednesday morning still unsure whether he had managed to hold his seat in the face of a shockingly strong challenge from Republican political operative Ed Gillespie.Contributing: David Jackson, in Washington, William M. Welch in McLean, Va., Associated Press