Two weeks ago, a stunning account in Rolling Stone magazine about an alleged gang rape at the University of Virginia sent the nation reeling. The stomach-churning story led to a police and university investigation, student protests, a temporary ban on fraternities and sororities at the school — and, eventually, tremors in the media that dared to ask: Was the account to be believed? Sixteen days later, another bombshell: Rolling Stone backed off the story.On Friday, the magazine said it discovered new information that made it lose faith in the piece, days after reporter Sabrina Rubin Erdely defended it.As a University of Virginia graduate who recently wrote about the heartbreak of sophomore Hannah Graham, whose disappearance and slaying captivated millions, I could barely digest the rape account. In a story dripping in gruesome details, Erdely recounted how freshman "Jackie" was brutally assaulted for several hours at a party at Phi Kappa Psi fraternity in the fall of 2012 after being lured to a darkened room by her date "Drew."The outrage in the university community and beyond was palpable. How could this go unchecked? How could these perpetrators still walk school grounds, still run into Jackie, still graduate in May?When I could finally swallow my anger and angst, I re-read the Rolling Stone piece a few days later. This time, however, I was able to detach from the scintillating prose — and I found the story unsettling for other reasons:• Embedded throughout the narrative were verses from a 70-year-old school song the reporter deemed "naughty," implying a culture of abusing women for decades. How could one make that leap?• The word "alleged" never appeared in the 9,000-word article.• There were changed names and quotes from unidentified people. On a guided tour of fraternity row, the reporter quotes a nameless student: "I know a girl who got assaulted there." Chimes in a second nameless student: "I do, too! That makes two! Yay!"• There was missing or unclear attribution. The story says "studies have shown that fraternity men are three times as likely to commit rape." Which studies?• And the most gaping hole of all: There was no mention of any attempt to contact the alleged perpetrators or to verify the events.The story goes into detail to cite alleged ringleader Drew — how he worked as a lifeguard, still roamed the campus. But beyond that, nothing. Now the fraternity says it has no record of anyone working at the aquatic center in 2012, nor a record of any social event on Sept. 28, 2012, the date in question.A basic tenet of journalism is to report all sides of a story — no matter how ugly, no matter how difficult. If you are unable to reach a party for comment you say that. If a party denies allegations in a story, you say that. It's not sexy; it doesn't always make for potent prose. But reporting all sides bolsters credibility and empowers your piece.A mesmerizing narrative should not supplant balance and fairness, standards editors should demand of anything they publish.USA TODAY has a policy of limiting the use of anonymous sources because unsubstantiated stories lose credibility with readers.The saddest takeaway may be that Rolling Stone could publish something so vivid, so alluring, yet so thin on facts and the alleged rapists' side of the story -- a failure the editors belatedly admitted Friday.The resulting firestorm is drowning out the voices that still deserve to be heard: the Jackies who may have suffered sexual assaults at Virginia and college campuses across the land.Miller is USA TODAY's copy desk chief. Follow her on Twitter @susmiller