    Hagel’s nomination now proceeds to the Senate floor. | John Shinkle/POLITICO Splitting along party lines, the Senate Armed Services Committee voted 14-11 on Tuesday to advance Chuck Hagel’s nomination after a tense two-hour meeting that closed the latest chapter in a weeks-long political saga.  The nomination heads to the full Senate, where Republicans may demand a 60-vote threshold in a vote expected later this week.  ( PHOTOS: Chuck Hagel’s confirmation hearing)  Democrats and Republicans broke sharply over whether the former Republican senator from Nebraska is the right man to run the Pentagon. Supporters cited Hagel’s experience as an enlisted soldier in Vietnam and his service in the Senate and elsewhere as reasons he should succeed Defense Secretary Leon Panetta while opponents stuck with their criticisms about Hagel’s past positions on Iran, Israel and the defense budget.  A few Republicans kept up their bid to stop Hagel’s nomination from moving ahead, arguing he has kept some information from the committee, but Democrats insisted that he has satisfied its disclosure requirements and accused Republicans of tarring Hagel unfairly.  Sen. Bill Nelson (D-Fla.) said Sen. Ted Cruz (R-Texas) had "gone over the line" and "basically ... impugned the patriotism of the nominee” by pointing out that the Iranian Foreign Ministry had praised Hagel.  The top Republican on the committee, Sen. Jim Inhofe (R-Okla.), shot back later in defense of Cruz, "You don't get any cozier than that."  Former ranking member Sen. John McCain (R-Ariz.) interjected soon thereafter with a message for his colleagues: "Sen. Hagel is an honorable man who has served his country, and no one on this committee at any time should impugn his character," McCain said.  ( PHOTOS: Chuck Hagel’s career)  But for most of the meeting, senators referred to Hagel’s late January confirmation hearing. McCain slammed Hagel’s performance as “the worst I have seen of any nomination for office” and said it was “disturbing” that Hagel would not directly respond to his question about whether the Iraq surge was a success. Democrats said the criticism of Hagel’s day in the spotlight was unfair, and they defended his description of a policy of “containment” for a nuclear Iran — which the White House does not support – as a simple slip of the tongue.  Apart from the politics involved with Hagel himself, Senate Armed Services Committee Chairman Carl Levin (D-Mich.) had warned senators that rejecting him would endanger the Pentagon at a time it could ill afford another complication. “If there’s a risk here, it is that the defeat of this nomination would leave the Department of Defense leaderless at a time when we face immense budgetary challenges and our military is engaged in combat operations overseas," Levin said.  While he acknowledged that many senators oppose President Barack Obama's foreign policy, "our vote on Sen. Hagel's nomination will not change those policies."  The meeting ultimately proved civil compared with what might have been — Republican aides had suggested earlier that some GOP senators were considering walking out to protest what they called Hagel’s insufficient financial disclosures. Inhofe and Cruz later ruled that out.  “I don’t think anything is gained by theatrics,” Cruz told POLITICO.  Just the same, Republicans continued to try to put on the brakes. Louisiana Sen. David Vitter quarreled with Levin over what Vitter said was an incomplete disclosure from Hagel of past speeches, and Cruz renewed the GOP line of questioning about whether Hagel had taken payments from “foreign sources.”  Hagel’s nomination now proceeds to the Senate floor, where Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid (D-Nev.) has said he hopes the chamber could vote on it Wednesday or Thursday.  Some Republicans said they might continue to oppose Hagel before the full Senate, but Reid responded with a single word on Tuesday when asked whether he’d honor an attempt at a hold: “No.”  With 55 Democrats controlling the Senate and two Republicans — Mike Johanns of Nebraska and Thad Cochran of Mississippi — already publicly supporting Hagel, only three more Republicans would need to support him for confirmation under a request from Republicans for a 60-vote threshold.  Inhofe said Monday night that he would not use his privilege to delay Hagel’s confirmation into the weekend or early next week, so long as Democrats produced 60 votes upfront to support Hagel.  This article first appeared on POLITICO Pro at 5:05 p.m. on February 12, 2013. 
