Vice President Joe Biden on Saturday delivered a heartfelt eulogy for NYPD officer Rafael Ramos, who was shot dead "execution style" by a man who posted on social media that he wanted revenge for the deaths of Michael Brown and Eric Garner."The time will come when Rafael’s memory will bring a smile to your lips before a tear to your eyes," Biden told Ramos' family. "I speak for the whole nation when I say our hearts ache for you.""Being a cop was not what they did, it was who they were; like every man and woman in uniform here today. It’s who you are," the vice president added. "And they like every one of you in uniform inside this church and outside, you all joined for essentially the same reason. There was something about you that made you think you could help, that you should serve, that you had a duty." Biden continued: "I have spoken at too many funerals for too many peace officers, too many funerals for brave women and men who kept us safe and watched their families grieve. And I’ve observed one thing that unfortunately, it’s only when a tragedy like this occurs that all their friends, neighbors, and people who didn't even know them become of aware of and reminded of the sacrifices they make every single, solitary day to make our lives better."The funeral, which was held in Queens, was attended by thousands of police officers and city officials, including New York Gov. Andrew Cuomo (D), New York City Police Commissioner Bill Bratton and Mayor Bill de Blasio. Police union officials have spoken critically of President Barack Obama and de Blasio for delivering remarks they saw as contributing to a climate of mistrust toward police in the wake of national protests over the deaths of unarmed black men at the hands of police.According to CNN, several officers booed when de Blasio arrived to the service, and some protest signs were shown. Photos shared on social media also showed police officers turning their backs on the mayor. During his remarks, de Blasio called Ramos a "hero" and praised the police department."Our hearts are aching today. I feel it physically, I feel it deeply," de Blasio said. "New York City has lost a hero, a remarkable man because of the depth of this commitment to those all around him. On behalf of all of us, I extend my condolences. I extend my condolences to the NYPD that is hurting so deeply right now, as their families feel loss as well."Funeral plans haven't yet been announced for Ramos' partner, Officer Wenjian Liu, who was also shot dead last week.Read a longer excerpt from Biden's speech below:When you patrol the streets of New York, you circle the Earth; a six-story walk-up, apartment towers, aromas of a million kitchens continuing thousands of traditions; streets full of silence, streets bursting with hundreds languages -– whispering. Laughing. Shouting. An intimidating city. A city of others. A city of labels and borders and seemingly unbridgeable gaps, a city constantly grappling with issues as old as the nation and as new as the morning headlines. Yet in every neighborhood in this great city, this most alive of all cities, this chaotic miracle stands as a beacon to the world in no small part because of the sacrifices that the New York Police Department makes every single day. So when an assassin’s bullet targeted two officers, it targeted this city and it touched the soul of the entire nation -- a city where the son of a Chinese immigrant shared a patrol with a Hispanic minister in training; a city where a single ride on a subway brings you into contact with more people, more lives than many people in this country will encounter in an entire lifetime; a city that educated a young college student with a mother from Kansas, and a father from Kenya who would one day stand before the nation and declare: This is not a black America or a white America or a Latino America or an Asian America; this is the United States of America. (Applause.) And for those of us who are not New Yorkers, we look at you in awe because this is the united city of New York as well; a city that rose as one to confront two of the greatest disasters of this century -- one from the evils of terrorism on 9/11 and one from the fury of nature in Superstorm Sandy. This is a city of courage and character, having faced and overcome the toughest challenges and I’m absolutely confident as you are that spirit is still alive and well in this city. And I’m absolutely confident it will guide you in the days and weeks ahead. I believe that this great police force, and this incredibly diverse city can and will show the nation how to bridge any divide. You’ve done it before. And you will do it again. Because, to paraphrase the words of William Allen White, you are not afraid of tomorrow, because you’ve seen yesterday and because you love today.DON EMMERT via Getty ImagesMaritza Ramos (C), wife of New York Police Officer Rafael Ramos, holds the colors as she is joined by her sons Justin (C-L) and Jaden (C-R) during the funeral for Ramos at the Christ Tabernacle Church in New York on December 27, 2014. Thousands of people, including US Vice President Joe Biden, attended the funeral Saturday for Ramos, one of two New York officers shot dead in apparent revenge for recent police killings of unarmed black men. Ramos was shot alongside his partner Wenjian Liu on December 20 on the heels of nationwide protests accusing police of racism and using excessive force against black people. AFP PHOTO/DON EMMERT (Photo credit should read DON EMMERT/AFP/Getty Images)Kevin Hagen via Getty ImagesNEW YORK, NY - DECEMBER 27: Pallbearers carry the casket for the funeral of slain New York Police Department (NYPD) officer Rafael Ramos at the Christ Tabernacle Church on December 27, 2014 in the Glenwood section of the Queens borough of New York City. Ramos was shot, along with Police Officer Wenjian Liu while sitting in their patrol car in an ambush attack in Brooklyn on December 20. Thousands of fellow officers, family, friends and Vice President Joseph Biden arrived at the church for the funeral. (Photo by Kevin Hagen/Getty Images)ASSOCIATED PRESSJustin Ramos, the son of slain New York City police officer Rafael Ramos, left, is comforted by his mother, Maritza Ramos, following funeral services at Christ Tabernacle Church, in the Glendale section of Queens, Saturday, Dec. 27, 2014, in New York. Ramos and his partner, officer Wenjian Liu, were killed Dec. 20 as they sat in their patrol car on a Brooklyn street. The shooter, Ismaaiyl Brinsley, later killed himself. Also pictured is officer Ramos' other son, Jaden Ramos, bottom. (AP Photo/Julio Cortez)ASSOCIATED PRESSFamily members of New York City police officer Rafael Ramos, including his son Jaden Ramos, center, and his wife Maritza Ramos, right, arrive before funeral services for officer Ramos at Christ Tabernacle Church, in the Glendale section of Queens, Saturday, Dec. 27, 2014, in New York. Ramos and his partner, officer Wenjian Liu, were killed Dec. 20 as they sat in their patrol car on a Brooklyn street. The shooter, Ismaaiyl Brinsley, later killed himself. (AP Photo/Julio Cortez)Spencer Platt via Getty ImagesNEW YORK, NY - DECEMBER 27: Police helicopters fly above television antenas as they do a flyover for the funeral at Christ Tabernacle Church for slain New York City Police Officer Rafael Ramos, one of two officers murdered while sitting in their patrol car in an ambush in Brooklyn last Saturday afternoon on December 27, 2014 in New York City. Thousands of fellow officers, family, friends and Vice President Joseph Biden are expected at the church in the Glendale neighborhood of Queens for the funeral. (Photo by Spencer Platt/Getty Images)Kevin Mazur via Getty ImagesNEW YORK, NY - DECEMBER 27: Justin Ramos arrives wearing his father's jacket to the funeral of his father slain New York City Police Officer Rafael Ramos, one of two officers murdered while sitting in their patrol car in an ambush in Brooklyn last Saturday afternoon on December 27, 2014 in New York City. Thousands of fellow officers, family, friends and Vice President Joseph Biden are expected at the church in the Glendale neighborhood of Queens for the funeral. (Photo by Kevin Mazur/Getty Images)Spencer Platt via Getty ImagesNEW YORK, NY - DECEMBER 27: U.S. Vice President Joseph Biden and his wife Jill (R) enter the Christ Tabernacle Church for the funeral of slain New York City Police Officer Rafael Ramos, one of two officers murdered while sitting in their patrol car in an ambush in Brooklyn last Saturday afternoon on December 27, 2014 in New York City. Thousands of fellow officers, family, politicians and friendsare expected at the church in the Glendale neighborhood of Queens for the funeral. (Photo by Spencer Platt/Getty Images)ASSOCIATED PRESSA police officer waits for the funeral of New York City police officer Rafael Ramos in the Glendale section of Queens, Saturday, Dec. 27, 2014, in New York. Ramos and his partner, officer Wenjian Liu, were killed Dec. 20 as they sat in their patrol car on a Brooklyn street. The shooter, Ismaaiyl Brinsley, later killed himself. (AP Photo/John Minchillo)ASSOCIATED PRESSA painting of New York Police Department officer Rafael Ramos is on display outside of Christ Tabernacle Church before his funeral at in the Glendale section of Queens, Saturday, Dec. 27, 2014, in New York. Ramos and his partner, officer Wenjian Liu, were killed Dec. 20 as they sat in their patrol car on a Brooklyn street. The shooter, Ismaaiyl Brinsley, later killed himself. (AP Photo/Julio Cortez)Spencer Platt via Getty ImagesNEW YORK, NY - DECEMBER 27: Police officers from around the country gather outside of Christ Tabernacle Church for the funeral of slain New York City Police Officer Rafael Ramos, one of two officers murdered while sitting in their patrol car in an ambush in Brooklyn last Saturday afternoon on December 27, 2014 in New York City. Thousands of fellow officers, family, friends and Vice President Joseph Biden are expected at the church in the Glendale neighborhood of Queens for the funeral. (Photo by Spencer Platt/Getty Images)Spencer Platt via Getty ImagesNEW YORK, NY - DECEMBER 27: Police officers from around the country gather outside of Christ Tabernacle Church for the funeral of slain New York City Police Officer Rafael Ramos, one of two officers murdered while sitting in their patrol car in an ambush in Brooklyn last Saturday afternoon on December 27, 2014 in New York City. Thousands of fellow officers, family, friends and Vice President Joseph Biden are expected at the church in the Glendale neighborhood of Queens for the funeral. (Photo by Spencer Platt/Getty Images)Kevin Hagen via Getty ImagesNEW YORK, NY - DECEMBER 27: An officer directs traffic for the funeral of slain New York City Police Officer Rafael Ramos, one of two officers murdered while sitting in their patrol car in an ambush in Brooklyn last Saturday afternoon on December 27, 2014 in New York City. Thousands of fellow officers, family, friends and Vice President Joseph Biden are expected at the church in the Glendale neighborhood of Queens for the funeral. (Photo by Kevin Hagen/Getty Images)Kevin Hagen via Getty ImagesNEW YORK, NY - DECEMBER 27: Church staff place flowers on top of a vehicle before the funeral of slain New York City Police Officer Rafael Ramos, one of two officers murdered while sitting in their patrol car in an ambush in Brooklyn last Saturday afternoon on December 27, 2014 in New York City. Thousands of fellow officers, family, friends and Vice President Joseph Biden are expected at the church in the Glendale neighborhood of Queens for the funeral. (Photo by Kevin Hagen/Getty Images)Spencer Platt via Getty ImagesNEW YORK, NY - DECEMBER 27: Police officers from around the country gather outside of Christ Tabernacle Church for the funeral of slain New York City Police Officer Rafael Ramos, one of two officers murdered while sitting in their patrol car in an ambush in Brooklyn last Saturday afternoon on December 27, 2014 in New York City. Thousands of fellow officers, family, friends and Vice President Joseph Biden are expected at the church in the Glendale neighborhood of Queens for the funeral. (Photo by Spencer Platt/Getty Images)