Politics|Huckabee Leaves Fox News Show to Consider 2016 Runhttps://www.nytimes.com/2015/01/04/us/politics/mike-huckabee-leaves-fox-news-show-to-consider-presidential-run.htmlCredit...Chip Somodevilla/Getty ImagesJan. 3, 2015Mike Huckabee, the former governor of Arkansas, announced Saturday night that he was ending his cable talk show and would make a decision about a presidential bid this spring.Mr. Huckabee, a Republican, used his weekly Fox News program, “Huckabee,” to reveal that he was leaving the network as he considers a second campaign for the White House.“As much as I have loved doing the show, I cannot bring myself to rule out another presidential run,” said Mr. Huckabee, 59, who also sought the Republican nomination in 2008. Adding a bit of drama, he said, “As we say in television, stay tuned!”He said he would make a decision on running “late in the spring.”Mr. Huckabee, a Baptist pastor turned politician, won a following with conservatives during his first campaign, and he has become even more widely known since then thanks to his presence on the Fox network.With a populist style and the speaking skills he has honed in the pulpit, on the stump and on the air, he could prove a significant factor during the 2016 primaries, particularly in states with large evangelical populations.Yet some Republicans question if he will actually go through with a campaign, in part because he has made so much money since his last bid and may not want to risk the loss of income from news media and speaking opportunities that could come with a second loss.The Republican field for 2016 could also see a number of more formidable Christian conservatives than those who ran in 2008.Mr. Huckabee sat out the 2012 race in part because he was earning millions of dollars a year for the first time in his life. He also did not think President Obama could be defeated.The high-water mark of Mr. Huckabee’s first presidential campaign was his commanding win in the Iowa caucuses, the contest that starts the nominating process. But he was unable to keep up financially with his Republican rivals, had difficulty building his base of support beyond the Christian right and split the conservative vote with other candidates.Mr. Huckabee clashed fiercely with Mitt Romney, specifically, and with establishment Republicans broadly in 2008, and he has been open about his frustration that Mr. Romney was seen as the runner-up in that contest.With former Florida Gov. Jeb Bush winning significant attention in recent weeks, Mr. Huckabee saw an opportunity to make it clear that Mr. Bush was not the only former governor considering a run.“There has been a great deal of speculation as to whether I would run for president,” he said. “If I were willing to absolutely rule that out, I could keep doing this show. But I can’t make such a declaration.”