As the coronavirus death toll in the United States soars to almost 300,000, the question of Congress approving a new round of aid remains. Negotiations were stalled for months, but on Dec. 1, a group of bipartisan lawmakers introduced a roughly $908 billion stimulus proposal while additional proposals were also introduced with some differences. Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell initially rejected the bipartisan proposal, but then offered his own proposal aimed to support businesses.Since then, lawmakers have continued to negotiate, but it’s unclear when Congress will pass a relief bill. Although there’s been some progress, House Speaker Nancy Pelosi said negotiations could stretch past Christmas.With only a few weeks left in the year for Congress to pass a relief bill, here’s what else you need to know and what you can expect to see in the coming weeks.What’s included in the original proposal? Will Americans receive another stimulus check?No negotiations have been made yet to include another $1,200 stimulus check in the bipartisan proposal, though the framework has not been finalized. The proposal aims to target aid in the realms of unemployment, education, housing, healthcare, and other areas. The proposal also allocates funds for the Postal Service, transportation, small businesses, and aid for state and local governments.$160 billion for state and local governments.$180 billion for federal unemployment benefits (an additional $300 per week).$288 billion for small businesses, including the reauthorization of the Paycheck Protection Program.$45 billion for transportation (includes airlines, airports, buses, transit and Amtrak).$10 billion for the U.S. Postal Service.Short-term federal protection from coronavirus-related lawsuits.Here’s an additional breakdown of what’s included in the bipartisan proposal.UnemploymentIn March, the CARES act provided an additional $600 to unemployed workers, on top of their usual unemployment check. That funding lapsed in July, and President Donald Trump signed an executive order to provide an additional $300 to unemployed workers until Dec. 31. The proposal picks up where the president left off and continues the additional $300 payments until April. Healthcare Late Friday night, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration authorized the first vaccine to prevent the coronavirus, which was developed by Pfizer and its German partner BioNTech. The proposal provides approximately $51 billion toward coronavirus related efforts, according to the framework.$6 billion for vaccine development and distribution $10 billion for COVID-19 testing and contact tracing$35 billion for a healthcare provider relief fundHousingIn August, an estimated 30-40 million people in the United States were at risk of eviction, according to the Aspen Institute. The proposal plans to alleviate some of the housing-related stress by providing $25 billion in rental assistance.Education and student loansThe bill would provide approximately $82 billion in aid for K-12 schools and higher education institutions. The bill also provides an additional $10 billion toward child care.Those with student loans have not had to make payments since March, the proposal extends that protection through April 30, according to Forbes.What do the other proposals include?On Tuesday, Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin proposed a slightly larger stimulus package at $916 billion. Mnuchin's proposal, though, includes a round of $600 stimulus checks for each eligible adult and an additional $600 per child. To offset that expense, Mnuchin's proposal reduced funding for federal unemployment benefits from $180 billion to $40 billion, which was deemed "unacceptable" by other representatives. This means Mnuchin's proposal includes a $600 stimulus check per adult, $1,200 for couples, and $600 per child. But the proposal does not include a supplemental $300 employment benefit like the bipartisan proposal. McConnell also advanced a much smaller $500 billion proposal that aims to help businesses stay afloat amid the pandemic by providing Paycheck Protection Program loans for small businesses. McConnell's proposal, though, does not include stimulus checks.Then on Thursday, Sen. Josh Hawley, R-Mo. and Sen. Bernie Sanders, I-Vt., said they wanted to attach language funding another round of $1,200 stimulus checks to eligible adults and $500 per child to must-pass government funding legislation. Sanders told reporters Friday he was confident their proposal would receive a vote, otherwise "we're going to spend Christmas here" in the Senate. When will Congress vote on a stimulus package?Last week, representatives raced to pass a spending bill to avert a government shutdown on Friday. The House passed it mid-last week, the Senate passed it on Friday, and the president signed the bill late Friday night. Lawmakers said the bill's one-week extension of government funding would give them more time to reach a deal on a comprehensive spending deal and COVID-19 relief.Though it's still not yet clear when Congress will pass a stimulus bill, the government funding deadline has been shifted back one week to Dec. 18. Still, it's possible negotiations will continue after Dec. 18 and stretch past Christmas. 