NEW YORK — Two men were charged Tuesday in connection with the shooting of a pair of police officers who were responding to a robbery Monday night, a day after the department buried one of its own.Security video showed one of the men, Jason Polanco, firing at the officers with a powerful .44 Magnum pistol as they pursued him Monday night following the robbery in a Bronx grocery store, New York Police Department officials said.Polanco, 23, was arrested on attempted murder and robbery charges. The second man, 28-year-old Joshua Kemp, was charged with robbery. The names of their attorneys were not immediately available.The two wounded officers, Andrew Dossi and Aliro Pellerano, were hospitalized in stable condition, police said at a news conference.Police officials praised five officers for responding to the robbery report even though their shifts had ended and they were about to head home."I commend them for their courage," Chief of Department James O'Neill said. "They were going home … and they ended up getting into a fierce firefight."Investigators released video early Tuesday that prompted several tips from the public that led to Polanco's identification and capture, police said. Kemp was caught after seeking treatment for his wound at a hospital, which contacted police.The officers "went above and beyond the call to protect their fellow New Yorkers," Mayor Bill de Blasio said at a news conference early Tuesday. "Thank God the officers are doing well and will recover."Officer Andrew Dossi, 30, was shot in the left arm and lower back. Aliro Pellerano, 38, was shot in his left arm and chest.Dossi's father, Joseph Dossi, told lohud.com that the officers carpooled together from suburban Rockland County. Dossi said his son is in the Army Reserve, a veteran of two tours in Iraq. He said the officer underwent surgery on his arm, which was shattered by a bullet."He's groggy, in a bunch of pain," his father said. "It looked like they put some pins in his arm. It looked pretty nasty."Police Commissioner William Bratton said the plainclothes officers, part of an anti-crime unit, were coming off their shift late Monday when they spotted two possible suspects in a robbery — one outside a Chinese restaurant and another inside it.He said when the officers got out of their car, a suspect in the restaurant opened fire, forcing the officers to shoot back. The suspects fled and police believe they carjacked a vehicle occupied by two women. The car was found abandoned and a revolver was found nearby. No further details about the women were made public.Hours before the shootings, de Blasio had released 2014 statistics that reflected record-low violent crimes across the city. Monday night's shooting came a little more than two weeks after two NYPD officers, Wenjian Liu and Rafael Ramos, were fatally shot in Brooklyn by Ismaaiyl Brinsley, who then killed himself. Liu's funeral, held Sunday, drew thousands of officers from across the nation.Brinsley had left behind social media posts saying he would be targeting random police officers. The officers shot Monday were in civilian clothes and apparently were not the victims of a vendetta against police, Deputy Chief Kim Royster said.The latest shooting comes at a time when relations between officers and the mayor are strained. Joseph Dossi told the New York Post his son was not particularly pleased to see the mayor when de Blasio visited the hospital. Dossi said his son "deals with some crappy people every day and getting no support (from de Blasio), come on. These are the guys in the trenches dealing with anything and everything."The organization COP SHOT, Citizens Outraged at Police Being Shot, offered a $10,000 reward leading to the arrest and conviction of the suspects.Joseph Dossi said his son is not married but has a 8-year-old daughter. Gail Dossi was at her son's side at the hospital."He's a patriotic type of guy," Joseph Dossi said. "Besides the Army, he was airborne, jumping and rappelling out of a helicopter. He came up through the ranks. He's now a staff sergeant. He was supposed to go to Africa next week. I guess that's off."Contributing: Steve Lieberman, The (Westchester, N.Y.) Journal News; William M. Welch, USA TODAY; Associated Press