    Hagel's fate could hinge on Benghazi. | John Shinkle/POLITICO Senate Republicans see the writing on the wall: Chuck Hagel will get his job at the Pentagon, and John Brennan will soon be headed to Langley.  But that doesn’t mean they won’t drag out the proceedings to extract every possible concession they can get and weaken the nominees and the White House in the process.  Harry Reid knows this and has had enough. In an attempt to get Hagel installed as secretary of defense before next week’s recess, the majority leader set up a Friday vote to cut off debate, setting up a crucial 60-vote test. If Reid can find five Republicans to join the 55 members of the Democratic Caucus, the Senate could approve Hagel quickly — possibly Saturday or earlier.  ( Also on POLITICO: Senate to vote Friday on Hagel)  But if he can’t, the White House could be forced to recalibrate its strategy as the nomination drags out into late February. And that could give the GOP more time to mount opposition to Hagel’s nomination, which has been targeted because of the former Nebraska senator’s past comments on Iran, Iraq and Israel and his shaky performance at his confirmation hearings.  Sen. John McCain (R-Ariz.), who previously opposed a filibuster on a defense secretary nominee, is now among those Republicans warning they may block Hagel until the White House coughs up more information over last September’s Benghazi attacks.  ( PHOTOS: Chuck Hagel's confirmation hearing)  Sen. John Thune, No. 3 in Senate GOP leadership, said his colleagues are prepared to unite to block the nomination if the White House doesn’t adequately respond to their demands for information.  “I think we will hold the line if there’s a vote this week,” Thune said before a caucus lunch. “Because there are enough of our members on the committee and some who aren’t that they aren’t being responsive and are not getting the information they had asked for.”  Asked about the precedent his party is setting, Thune demurred: “I don’t think it influences the ultimate outcome. I think in the end, ultimately he’ll get his vote.”  Democrats are warning Republicans that the precedent they set by forcing a cloture vote on the national security nominees — particularly on Hagel — would come back to haunt them when a GOP president eventually returns to the White House.  “This is the first time in the history of our country that a presidential nominee for secretary of defense has been filibustered,” Reid said on the floor. “What a shame, but that’s the way it is.”  Republicans are trying to make the case that their decision to force a cloture vote is really not all that unusual. They say they are simply delaying a final vote, which they promise will eventually come, just as minority parties typically do to exert their leverage over the White House. And they say it’s not uncommon for the two parties to agree that 60 votes are needed to confirm presidential nominations, even if it’s not technically called a filibuster. Sen. Kelly Ayotte of New Hampshire, one of three Republicans on the Armed Services Committee seeking more details about Benghazi, said there have been “many situations here where nominations have been delayed” as senators request more information from the White House.  “As I’ve said from the beginning, I expect that his nomination will get a vote one way or another, so I don’t think it’s that type of precedent,” Ayotte said. “If for some reason his nomination did not receive a vote, that would be a different issue.”  Since Republicans are simply asking for documents before they agree to an up-or-down vote, Sen. Saxby Chambliss (R-Ga.) said, “it’s not a filibuster in my mind.”  Only twice in the nation’s history have Cabinet-level nominees been required to surpass the 60 votes needed to overcome a filibuster — and those were for two domestic agencies, the Commerce Department in 1987 and the Interior Department in 2006.  But the dual efforts show the sharp disagreement between Senate Republicans and the White House over the president’s foreign policy agenda at the onset of his second term. And it underscores the enormous challenges Obama will face as he begins to move his domestic agenda through the Senate, in the face of a divided chamber in which senators have the power to derail and delay any measure they want.  Sen. Rand Paul (R-Ky.), for instance, wants to hold up Brennan’s nomination to lead the CIA until the White House fully articulates whether it believes the United States government can kill Americans on U.S. soil by unmanned drones.  While some Republicans, such as Maine Sen. Susan Collins are prepared to vote against a filibuster, whether Hagel is confirmed this week depends in large measure on what McCain decides to do.  McCain, along with Ayotte and Sen. Lindsey Graham (R-S.C.), wrote a letter to Obama this week pressing him on the September 2012 terrorist attacks in Benghazi, asking him if he personally spoke with Libyan government officials to ask for assistance for American personnel there.  On Wednesday, McCain sounded upbeat about the prospects that White House would respond to his questions, and Senate Armed Services Chairman Carl Levin (D-Mich.) said he was “confident” the president would respond to the Republican trio’s request before Hagel’s confirmation vote. Still, McCain refused to say what he’d do if he didn’t hear back from the president.  “We deserve answers before we move forward with nominees – that’s been a standard that we’ve moved forward with for the last 26 years I’ve been here,” McCain said.  Graham, who also has threatened to hold up Brennan’s nomination over the Benghazi issue, said: “This is the way the system works around here. What leverage do you have against the White House who basically won’t respond to anything?”  The White House has roundly dismissed the criticisms over Benghazi, saying the president ordered his top national security officials to take “every precaution” immediately when he learned about the September 2012 attacks.  “What is unfortunate here is the continuing attempt to politicize an issue — in this case, through nominees that themselves had nothing to do with Benghazi — and to do so in a way that only does harm to our national security interests,” White House spokesman Jay Carney said earlier this week.  “Total bull,” was Graham’s response to Carney’s comments.  Hagel isn’t the only nominee in Graham’s cross hairs. Brennan’s nomination hit a fresh snag on Wednesday when Paul said that he would object to efforts to schedule a vote if the White House refuses to articulate its policy on whether government drones can kill Americans on U.S. soil. That would require Democrats to find 60 votes to advance the nomination.  “I’m going to object in any way we can until we find out whether or not the head of the CIA claims the authority to kill Americans without a trial with a drone in America,” Paul told POLITICO. “You would think the notion of that is so bizarre and absurd that he would immediately say ‘no.’”  Democrats almost certainly would have the votes to break a filibuster on Brennan. But taken with Hagel, the moves would be extraordinary and amount to a new front in the procedural wars that have consumed the Senate in recent years.  Paul said he was not yet satisfied with Brennan after he failed to clearly state his views under questioning from Sen. Ron Wyden (D-Ore.) during last week’s confirmation hearing before the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence. But Wyden said in an interview Wednesday he didn’t plan to join a filibuster over the issue.  “We’re going to hold him until we get an answer — does he claim the authority to kill Americans in America with drone strikes?” Paul said.  CORRECTION: An earlier version of this story omitted words from a Harry Reid quote. 
