    Obama and his team have pulled back from their initial strategy. President Barack Obama hopes to spark a pitchfork revolt against Republicans over sequester-induced budget cuts — but many Democrats fret that he’s undermined that effort with an early strategy marred by hype, poor planning and muddled messaging.  The stakes in the sequester debate aren’t quite as high as they were during the debt ceiling battle of 2011, but Democratic veterans of the Obama-Republican wars of 2009 and 2010 are getting a creepy sense of déjà vu from a White House messaging shop they believe fumbled the rollouts of the stimulus and health care initiatives.  Over the past few days, Obama and his team have pulled back from a kick-off strategy that portrayed the $84 billion in automatic cuts this year as a parade of instant horrors — hellish waits at airports, a quick cascade of private job losses resulting from voided federal contracts, teachers immediately sacked.  ( Also on POLITICO: Wall Street blows off the sequester)  That’s part of a “recalibration,” according to one Obama insider, intended to take the focus off the veracity of the administration’s claims — and back on congressional Republicans who have refused to give ground on new tax revenue demanded by Obama as a condition of any long-term budget deal.  “I think they probably went over the top in terms of saying that the consequences were going to be horrible, especially because it’s happened and the lines in the airports aren’t long, the world hasn’t changed overnight,” says former Pennsylvania Gov. Ed Rendell, an on-again, off-again Obama critic who supports the broad outlines of Obama’s $4 trillion “grand bargain” proposal.  “Some of this is going to kick in eventually — government workers will be furloughed, contractors will lose their jobs, people will start feeling this for sure — but it will take some time … and it probably wasn’t the best strategic path for the White House to follow.”  One top Democratic Congressional aide offered this bit of advice to Obama: “Don’t accentuate a fight you don’t intend to wage [and] can’t win. … They spent two weeks building up sequester as a horror show and then got fact-checked a dozen times and were forced to back off their own claims of it being a disaster once they were forced to acquiesce to the cuts happening.”  ( Also on POLITICO: Koch-backed group says Obama’s hyping)  The cuts are coming, many after a one-month delay — and local media around the country were busily reporting details of tower closures at 173 small- to medium-sized airports by April 7. Republicans claim the administration could opt for less onerous cuts, but the Obama administration says the indiscriminate austerity of the sequester means unavoidable pain.  Obama himself seemed to acknowledge the need to lower the temperature when he strode into the White House briefing room last Friday to make a significant messaging adjustment: It’s going to be bad, but not the end of the world.  “We will get through this. This is not going to be an apocalypse, I think as some people have said,” Obama said after exiting a perfunctory 52-minute meeting at the White House with House Speaker John Boehner (R-Ohio), Senate Minority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-Ky.), Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid (D-Nev.) and House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi (D-Calif.).  ( Also on POLITICO: Right-wing blogs: The world isn’t ending)  “It’s just dumb. And it’s going to hurt. It’s going to hurt individual people, and it’s going to hurt the economy over all,” he said, in a tone that was considerably less alarmist than the messaging emanating from his team the prior week. Obama’s aides deny his statement represented any kind of messaging reversal. It was, they say, intended to correct a false media storyline that he was crying wolf:  “We believe that the Administration has an obligation to inform the public of what the impacts of the sequester are going to be to prepare them in advance for what’s likely to happen. But we have always said that the impacts won’t be felt immediately, and they won’t be felt everywhere,” a senior administration official told POLITICO.  “Seems like some in Washington and the press chose to not hear the part of our statements about impacts not happening immediately or everywhere. But that’s OK. We knew there would be some of that, and still felt it was necessary to tell the public in advance of likely impacts.”  Scott Lilly, a former senior Democratic budget aide on Capitol Hill and a senior fellow at the liberal Center for American Progress, said the president waited too long to take his case to the public. He should’ve started a year ago — during the campaign — preparing the country for the negative consequences of the cuts, and sparing himself the need to publicize the effects all at once.  “I never understood their strategy on sequestration,” Lilly said. “Greater granularity earlier would’ve helped the public understand what they were getting into and put more pressure on Republicans.”  Since they cut the sequester agreement with Republicans in 2011, Obama’s team has been “remarkably ineffective in explaining that choice and why they were forced into it and who forced them into it. The more people are confused about why this is happening, the more latitude the Republicans will have to continue with gridlock,” he added.  The administration’s attempts to quantify the impact of the cuts have, at times, created more confusion than clarity.  Last week, Education Secretary Arne Duncan stumbled in saying a West Virginia school district had already sent out pink slips to teachers: The district said it had nothing to do with the looming cuts. Homeland Security Secretary Janet Napolitano said at a POLITICO Playbook breakfast Monday that airports were already experiencing long lines: The TSA and airport representatives said that wasn’t the case.  Republicans and their allies have pounced on what they view as White House exaggeration about the sequester, a welcome respite from months of mirthless post-election soul-searching. FOX News has been running images of placid, uncrowded airports — a counter to the administration’s warnings about looming tower and security cuts.  Obama’s team likes to cite polls showing three-quarters of respondents backing his hybrid of cuts and tax hikes, and they tout the president’s solid personal approval ratings, still in the 50s despite recent signs of slippage.  But the long-term impact of the fight remains ambiguous. A CBS poll released on Monday found that 38 percent of those polled blame the sequester stalemate on congressional Republicans. But 33 percent blame Obama, a gap wide enough to preserve the president’s public standing, but probably not big enough to create the tidal wave of public opinion needed to drive the GOP back to the bargaining table.  One senior Republican aide joked that Obama’s hope that constituents will force congressional conservatives to act is doomed because “our approval rating is already like 8 percent on a good day. … He’s going to drive it down to 6? Big deal.” Brad Dayspring, communications director for the National Republican Senatorial Committee, thinks Obama’s tougher stance with Congress will eventually sour the public, making a big deal even less likely.  “Finger-pointing only goes so far,” he said. “The ability to build consensus shouldn’t be a foreign concept to the president, but it seems to be. … At a certain point boiling the soup for too long will burn it.”  People around Obama say the current situation isn’t analogous to the flawed and often ineffective messaging campaigns that afflicted health care and the stimulus.  This time, they say, time is on Obama’s side: As the impact of the pain filters down to individual districts — in the form of reduced government services, federal worker furloughs and deep defense cuts — Republican members of the House will come under increased pressure from constituents to cut a big deal on spending and entitlements with the Obama administration.  But Harry Reid and other Senate Democrats have argued that the current fight is one Obama might have avoided if he had driven a tougher bargain a couple of months back. They opposed Obama’s December fiscal cliff deal, which set a March 1 sequester trigger, because they wanted to extend the deadline by a year or more, giving Obama more leverage to cut a bigger deal with more revenue.  Moreover, GOP critics argue that the White House underestimated the resistance from Republican leaders to raising new revenue after agreeing to $600 billion in tax hikes on New Year’s Eve.  Senior administration officials told reporters immediately after the fiscal cliff deal was reached that the president had plenty of tax-raising options left over to buy down the sequester, including, hundreds of billions in loophole closures that Boehner himself had identified.  And in the past two months, White House aides often reminded reporters that Republicans went from opposing tax rate hikes in November to accepting them in the fiscal cliff deal and predicted that a similar evolution would occur on the sequester fight.  “[Obama and his aides] have always been a little behind the curve in terms of understanding where the power in the House Republican conference lies,” Lilly said. “The people they talk to are more reasonable than the people they don’t talk to. The ones they don’t talk to dominate how the Republican conference works.”  Hours before the sequester went into effect Friday, administration officials said they never had any real hope that Republicans would bend by the deadline. They described the sequester fight as a long war and said the president would make it as hard as possible for Republicans to stick to their current position.  Even Democratic critics like Lilly still think Obama holds the winning hand and should be able to leverage public outrage over the cuts into a solution that includes new revenue.  To do that, however, Obama’s team needs to tighten its message and avoid the kind of missteps that have plagued the initial phase of the sequester strategy, his own allies say.  “It’s a fine line the [White House] has to be careful with, striking the balance of sounding the alarm without appearing to exaggerate,” says veteran Democratic operative Karen Finney, who expressed confidence Obama will eventually prevail.  “The guy gets the long game, everybody always underestimates that,” she added. 
