    It’s the culture war no one wants — except the base. | AP Photos President Barack Obama hasn’t talked about waffle fries.  Mitt Romney won’t get into chicken sandwiches.  It’s the culture war no one wants — except the base.  Obama’s reelection prospects are bound up in the hope that he can convince people he actually is digging the country out of a hole, which means keeping the attention on those efforts and how deep the hole was. For Romney, with polls that consistently show him climbing when the focus is on the election but dipping when it goes elsewhere, the political path through November is clear. The president needs people seeing photos of the gay couples gathering at Chick-fil-A franchises for Friday night's planned “kiss-in” about as much as Romney wants independents hearing the latest social conservative soundbites about the evils of gay marriage.  ( Also on POLITICO: 10 other food boycotts)  But in an election in which stoking the base is crucial for both candidates and gay marriage is a flashpoint for activists on both sides, that’s what the candidates are getting anyway.  Obama, already in favor of gay marriage, has little to gain by weighing in against a private company that operates primarily in red states on an issue that has already inflamed social conservatives. He has treaded lightly on the issue on the campaign trail, touting the repeal of the military’s “don’t ask, don’t tell” policy but avoided new calls for legalizing gay marriage since announcing he supported it in May.  Several officials in Obama’s White House and campaign did not respond Friday to requests for comment about Chick-fil-A. And there’s reason for the president to keep the issues away from the center of his reelection campaign. Obama can’t afford to alienate religious conservatives in the black community or give blue-collar Democratic whites in Ohio and Virginia another reason to vote against him.  Romney favors a constitutional amendment forbidding gay marriage, but like nearly all traditional culture war issues, it’s a topic he avoids. And he’s no stranger to the chicken franchise: Back in May, in his commencement address to evangelical Liberty University, Romney praised Chick-fil-A founder Truett Cathy — whose son, Dan, sparked the latest controversy by saying gay marriage invites “God’s judgment.”  But he hasn’t said anything on the topic since. On Friday, speaking to reporters in Las Vegas, Romney said Chick-fil-A is among issues that “are not things that are part of my campaign.”  The candidate on Friday refused to weigh in on former rival Rick Santorum and celebrity Republicans Sarah Palin and Mike Huckabee bringing cameras with them as they dined on fast food and wouldn’t repeat his endorsement of the sandwiches. Lumped in with Republican attacks on Hillary Clinton aide Huma Abedin, Romney said, “I’m not going to tell other people what to talk about.”  Capturing the line he’s walking, an adviser explained later that Romney “authentically loves” the fast-food chain but doesn’t need a distraction from his economic message.  Romney falls within the new mainstream Republican critique of Obama’s gay marriage evolution. When the president announced his support for the practice in May, the GOP criticism was muted. House Speaker John Boehner tried to pivot back to the economy while others mocked the president for the election-year change of heart. Romney asserted his opposition to gay marriage and tried to move on.  That’s a mistake, said Ralph Reed, the founder of the Faith and Freedom Coalition, who argued that Romney has ground to gain not just with the social conservative base from jumping into the fray.  “The vast majority of the American people, even those who might not agree with Dan Cathy’s personal views, think that it was incorrect for Rahm Emanuel and the mayor of Boston to suggest that they wouldn’t be allowed to get a permit in their city,” Reed said, adding, “I think anything for anybody running for office in either party right now would benefit” from a trip to a Chick-fil-A franchise. There are land mines for both candidates. Romney, aside from his 1994 statement that he would be better for the gay community than Ted Kennedy, has celebrity Republicans like Santorum, Sarah Palin and Huckabee touting their support. And Obama has the fact that the processed chicken controversy kicked into high gear only after Emanuel joined a chorus of mayors threatening to stop the company because of Cathy’s remarks last month in a radio interview.  Chick-fil-A’s corporate stance against gay marriage is hardly new. The Cathy family has donated millions to groups supporting anti-gay-marriage constitutional amendments, keeps its restaurants closed on Sundays in a nod to God and makes no secret of its socially conservative views.  But after Wednesday’s Huckabee-sponsored day of support for the chain led to hours-long lines at franchises across the country, it would not take much for Romney to make a show of support for the company, Pat Buchanan said Friday.  “I don’t understand why Mitt Romney doesn’t just get his Secret Service detail and take his press corps down to a Chicken-fil-A and show solidarity with these people,” Buchanan said. “I don’t know why not. It’s instinct. Reagan would have walked right on down there naturally.”  Jeremy Hooper, a New York political consultant working for GLAAD to pressure the restaurant chain, said there isn’t the same sense of victimization on the left into which Democratic politicians can tap.  Conservatives, Hooper said, “have very strategically moved the conversation to one of victimization. Michele Bachmann and Rick Santorum and all of the allies are doing it as a solidarity move. On the progressive side, … we don’t have that same organized mentality as they have over there.”  Aside from the mayors of Chicago, Boston, San Francisco and Washington, D.C., announcing support and a tweet from House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi saying, “For the record, I prefer Kentucky Fried Chicken,” Hooper said gay activists have noticed a lack of support from high-profile politicians.  “I think there have been a couple of people who have said something,” Hooper said. “But they don’t see the same need to turn this into a politicized issue that the far right does.”  Buchanan said Republicans risk losing social conservatives for a generation if they allow Romney to campaign without making adherence to traditional marriage part of his campaign.  “If the Democratic Party is going to take a stand for homosexual marriage and the Republican Party wont stand up for traditional marriage, then they’re abdicating their role in the culture war,” he said. People with strong feelings against gay marriage, he said, “are going to walk away from the party.”  And Hooper said Democratic politicians need to feel that they can’t take the gay community for granted and must begin standing up for gay rights.  “It’s one of those frustrations that we see a lot in LGBT politics,” he said. “If this were an economic matter, the person who said the things that Dan Cathy has said, they would be asked to resign. But he can say it’s about traditional marriage or defend the family and dance around what actually happened.”  And Carly McGehee, the 24-year-old Dallas political activist who organized Friday’s kiss-in, said she’s not concerned that the pro-Chick-fil-A forces had higher political star power this week than the response is expected to.  “I’ve not made a point of contacting them either. This is a grass-roots event and I’ve been trying to reach out to the average American citizen,” McGehee said. “It would be awesome, yes, but we have the majority of the American people on our side and I’m going to say to the people eating there, Sarah Palin, Rick Santorum, you’re on the wrong side of history. Yes, it would be great to have politicians in support of this, but I don’t think its something that we need to make this movement visible or credible.” 
