Credit...Doug Mills/The New York TimesMarch 2, 2015WASHINGTON — Senator Barbara A. Mikulski, the animated and occasionally irascible Democrat from Maryland who rose from being a community organizer to become the longest-serving woman in Congress, announced Monday that she would retire when her term ends in 2017.The surprising decision came just a few months after Republicans gained control of the Senate, reducing Ms. Mikulski from chairwoman to of the powerful Appropriations Committee, where she had been the first woman to lead the panel, to ranking member.Ms. Mikulski, 78, announced her decision to not seek a sixth term on Monday morning in Baltimore. Ms. Mikulski said that she wanted to spend the next two years in Congress focusing on her work instead of raising money and campaigning.“Do I spend my time raising money or do I spend my time raising hell?” she said at the news conference in the Fells Point neighborhood of Baltimore, the city’s original port area. She was noting her sometimes combative legislative style, which has served her well over decades in a body that has become increasingly partisan and gridlocked.Her decision comes at a time when Maryland Democrats are struggling to refocus after the party’s surprising loss of the governorship to a Republican last year.“Every day, I want to wake up thinking about you, the little guys and gals, the watermen, automobile workers, researchers, small-business owners and families,” Ms. Mikulski said Monday. “I want to give you 120 percent of my time with all of my energy focused on you and your futures.”Ms. Mikulski, a former social worker who climbed through Maryland’s political system over the course of several decades, served as a mentor to women of both parties, organizing monthly dinners to talk work and family. She was one of only two women in the Senate when she took office in 1987, and used that experience to build a base of female power in the Capitol.“To me, she has been an extraordinary role model, a wonderful mentor and a close friend,” said Senator Susan Collins, Republican of Maine and one of the 20 women in the Senate. “I will miss her strong leadership, good humor, intelligence and integrity. The Senate is a better place for her having served here.”Among potential replacements for Ms. Mikulski — who handily won re-election the last time she ran — are Representatives Chris Van Hollen, Elijah E. Cummings and Donna Edwards. The party could also try to press Martin O’Malley, the former Maryland governor who is considering a White House bid in 2016, to run for the seat.There will no doubt be some pressure on the Democratic state party to find another woman to run. Maryland does not have an African-American elected to state office, a hope dashed last year when Lt. Gov. Anthony G. Brown was beaten in an upset by Larry Hogan, a Republican, in the race for governor.But the fact that Ms. Mikulski served so long and the absence of a Democrat in the governor’s office could make the process a bit of a free for all. ImageCredit...Steve Ruark/Associated Press“There is, in some sense, pent-up demand among a lot of people,” said John T. Willis, professor of government and public policy at the University of Baltimore. “There could be a real domino effect, and when you say, ‘Who is the ideal demographic of the candidate?’ there is no one who can control that. I think it is totally wide open.”At least one Republican — Representative Andy Harris — is very likely to consider a run.Ms. Mikulski was elected to the House in 1976 and to the Senate a decade later. In 2012, she surpassed Representative Edith Nourse Rogers, a Republican from Massachusetts, as the longest-serving woman in Congress.Ms. Mikulski was devoted to increasing the number of female Democrats in Congress, and maintaining an informal working group of women from both parties in the Senate, a rarefied group. Senator Barbara Boxer, Democrat of California, has said she will not seek another term, too, when her term ends in 2016. “There are more women than before,” said Julian E. Zelizer, a professor of history and public affairs at Princeton University and an expert on Congress. “But it’s certainly not representative of the general population, and the number of female senators in leadership positions is meager. The Senate simply doesn’t look like the America, and that only intensifies the distance between the citizenry and this institution.”While Ms. Mikulski — who kept her mother’s plain kitchen table in her elegant hideaway off the Senate floor — worked with bipartisan flair on bills and the Senate floor, her ideas and politics remained firmly grounded in the liberal orthodoxy that has defined Maryland politics for years, especially in its urban areas.“Thanks to her leadership,” President Obama said in a statement Monday, “more women excel in their careers, more children have access to quality education, more families have health insurance and more people are treated fairly under the law.”