        Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez (D-NY) said during an Instagram Live session this week that Congress ... [+] is exploring the creation of a commission to investigate the US media ecosystem in the wake of last week's DC riots.    Getty Images   
Even in the wake of something as dramatic as last week’s DC riots, so much of the speechifying and legislative maneuvering that takes place on any given day in the nation’s capital — even and especially during the era of Trump — is predictable and superficial. Representatives prance and preen. Senators fall in line behind the party elders. Sure, there are those who break ranks every now and then, but it seems rarely enough to matter to the overall outcome. And then there are legislators like Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez, who take a keen interest in structures and systems — and who have little time for niceties and casting votes that do little more than send a message rather than produce anything actionable.  
Accordingly, the Democratic congresswoman from New York has once again spun up the right-wing rage machine, this time over her willingness to call out the extremes, the insanity, and the misinformation that permeates the US media ecosystem. To the point that — well, she just came right out and said it during an Instagram Live session this week. Talking straight to the camera at her more than 8 million Instagram followers, she confirmed that the possibility of a congressional investigative commission is in the exploratory stage, the idea being that it would probe the extent to which an out-of-control, media-driven narrative fueled the attack on the Capitol. She didn’t explicitly point to this connection, but it’s hard not to assume that the logic reflect the fact that — if the president was impeached for incitement of the rioting, why shouldn’t scrutiny also turn to other sources that may have also incited violence in their own way?    
“We’re going to have to figure out how we rein in our media environment, so you can’t just spew disinformation and misinformation,” the congresswoman said during the Instagram Live — adding that media literacy and the lack thereof “is a part of what happened here.”  “It’s one thing to have different opinions, but it’s another thing entirely to just say things that are false, so that’s something we’re looking into.” Despite the right-wing counter-narrative that quick developed in response to this news, what Rep. Ocasio-Cortez is talking about here is not some sort of extension of the Big Tech crackdown on Trump and on the extreme rhetoric (up to and including the death threats and threats of violence) exhibited by Trump supporters across myriad platforms, apps, and digital services. This is, rather, a media story — one that’s been a long time coming, and each day that passes brings a feverish news cycle fueled in part by outlets like Fox    FOXA  , Newsmax and others that only reinforce what the congresswoman said this commission will try to accomplish. When and if it gets off the ground.  Here, for example, is some of the latest right-wing content that no doubt speaks to what this nascent congressional committee would be focused on:    At the top of the Newsmax homepage at the time of this writing, for example, there’s a picture of controversial Trump aide Peter Navarro with the headline, “Navarro: Dems 'Did Violence' by Impeaching 'Legally Elected' Trump”.  As a direct response to the news from AOC, Fox published this piece from a high-profile commentator, with the following headline: “Dave Rubin slams AOC on calling for commission on ‘media literacy,’ says left is crushing dissent”.  Another headline about this news, from Fox: “AOC’s suggestion of commission to ‘rein in media slammed as ‘wholly un-American”.  And on his talk radio program that’s a mainstay of the right-wing media diet and which has long been popular with conservative audiences, host Rush Limbaugh this week delivered a monologue titled: “If Democrats can erase us from social media, can they erase our votes?”             Talk radio host Rush Limbaugh sits in the First Lady's box ahead of the State of the Union address ... [+] in the chamber of the US House of Representatives on February 04, 2020 in Washington, DC.    Getty Images   
Taken together, what narrative tapestry presumably emerges from content like that? You could argue it’s that Democrats are perpetrating “violence,” “crushing dissent” — and maybe even have the capacity to erase legal votes, if you believe these media commentators. And that’s the problem, too many people do. A new NPR/Ipsos poll found that a staggering number of Americans are increasingly susceptible to fake news and misinformation — to the point that, according to this poll, 40% of respondents think the coronavirus was bioengeered in a lab in China, never mind the lack of evidence for that claim. Moreover, another third of respondents think Joe Biden only won the 2020 presidential election thanks to voter fraud. It's left some people wondering if there's any hope left of getting people to adhere to, in the words of Ipsos pollster Chris Jackson, a "baseline reality." Tucker Carlson, the firebrand and often factually-challenged host of the Fox News talk program Tucker Carlson Tonight, began one of his programs in recent days by insisting to viewers that Fox News isn’t going anywhere once President Trump leaves office next week. “The rest of us — and this is the key — will still be here,” Carlson promised. “We’ve got nowhere to go.” Be that as it may, they may also have a congressional inquiry soon to keep them busy. Although, again, this is still in the nascent stage, according to Rep. Ocasio-Cortez, so it might not come to fruition at all or perhaps take a completely different direction. But media junkies, in particular, will no doubt greet the fact that this idea is been discussed at all as, no pun intended, welcome news, indeed. 