  The city that never sleeps is ready for a great awakening.  After enduring more than 13 months of a global pandemic that ravaged the Big Apple, New York is taking a major step toward a return to normal with mask mandates and restrictions on businesses being lifted.    Pedestrians walk across the street on E. 23rd St. and Broadway in Manhattan, New York. (Abrigail Williams/NEW YORK DAILY NEWS)   Gov. Cuomo offered a celebratory pat on the back Wednesday, marking the “milestone” as a majority of the state’s COVID capacity limits are officially eased and vaccinated New Yorkers are allowed to ditch their face coverings in most circumstances.  “New York is coming back, and it’s a testament to the strength and grit of New Yorkers who banded together, stayed tough, and fought as one to defeat this COVID beast,” the governor said in a statement.    The reopening means capacity limits are lifted for most businesses, as well as restaurants, offices, churches, museums and theaters. There are no more mask or social distance requirements for those who are fully vaccinated, in compliance with the recent Centers for Disease Control and Prevention guidance.  Face coverings are still required in schools, hospitals, on mass transit and for those not yet inoculated. Businesses can choose to continue to require masks for all customers.   Additionally, the statewide curfew on outdoor food and drink service was lifted earlier in the week. The midnight curfew for indoor dining is scheduled to be lifted at the end of the month.    A sign at Starbucks on W. 23rd St. and Fifth Ave. notifies fully-vaccinated customers that face coverings are optional starting May 19 in Manhattan, New York. (Abrigail Williams/NEW YORK DAILY NEWS)   The sweeping changes come as the Empire State’s COVID cases and hospitalization rates drop to their lowest levels since last fall and nearly half of all New Yorkers have been immunized against the deadly virus that ravaged the Big Apple.  The statewide positivity rate stood at 1% as of Tuesday and 1,521 New Yorkers remained hospitalized with the virus, according to the governor’s office.    A group of friends take advantage of vaccinations, relaxed Covid guidelines and a beautiful day on Wednesday in Madison Square Park in Manhattan. (Wes Parnell/for New York Daily News)   Another 21 people died of COVID, bringing the state’s death toll to 42,524.  “This progress has been a function of the hard work and dedication shown by New Yorkers throughout this entire pandemic, and it’s because of that progress that we are able to ease restrictions on businesses and lift mask and social-distancing requirements for vaccinated individuals in most public places,” Cuomo said. “This is a huge milestone in our reopening and our efforts to build New York back better and stronger.”  The governor also offered updated guidance for health and safety measures at child care, day camp, and overnight camp programs that include tracking vaccination status and documentation for all staff and children and mandatory daily health screenings for staff and visitors.  Child care facilities, day camps and overnight camps must implement capacity limits and enforce mask-wearing mandates for unvaccinated kids and staffers under new rules.  Staff who are not fully vaccinated must wear masks and maintain 6 feet of distance from other unvaccinated staff, and facilities must enforce capacity limits that ensure “appropriate” social distancing.  Children over 2 who are not fully vaccinated must wear face coverings except when eating, drinking, showering, swimming or sleeping.  “To help ensure maximum protections for staff and children at child care and camp programs, we are issuing this guidance so the facilities can implement basic but critical measures that will allow them to operate safely,” Cuomo said.  