New Jersey Gov. Chris Christie’s allies have launched a new super PAC to beef up the presidential hopeful’s campaign-in-waiting, allowing his supporters to raise unlimited sums of money and bucking critics who say his potential White House bid is already in trouble.Phil Cox, the former executive director to the Republican Governors Association, on Thursday launched the America Leads super PAC amid an increasingly fierce competition for top donors among potential GOP candidates. Cox, who worked for Christie when he chaired the RGA during the 2014 election cycle, will serve as director of the new political action committee."He’s provided effective, conservative leadership in a deep blue state, bringing people together to solve difficult problems and get results. That’s exactly the kind of leadership we need in America today, and we hope he decides to run," said Cox. “I’ve established this Super PAC because it’s time for America to lead again, and I believe Governor Christie is exactly the kind of strong leader we need at this critical point in our nation’s history."Super PACS have emerged as a top priority for potential candidates eager to raise large sums of money to bolster their candidacies. That is particularly true in the fledgling GOP field this cycle, which is already crowded with candidates fighting for top donors.The pro-Christie America Leads is just the latest such organization. Per a Thursday story by Matea Gold:Already, operatives with close ties to eight likely White House contenders have launched political committees that can accept unlimited donations — before any of them has even declared their candidacy. ...The goal is simple: Potential candidates want to help their super PAC allies raise as much money as possible now, before their official campaigns start. That’s because once they announce their bids, federal rules require them to keep their distance.Paige Hahn, who worked alongside Cox as the RGA’s top finance operative, will join American Leads as finance director. Cox has also brought on Meredith O’Rourke, a leading Republican fundraising operative in Florida, as a financing consultant.One of the big benefactors of the new super PAC is expected to be Home Depot co-founder Ken Langone, who told The Washington Post recently that he was prepared to contribute substantial sums to the group when it launched.The Wall Street Journal reported Thursday that Christie’s Leadership Matters PAC has also brought on three former George W. Bush campaign advisers: Brian Jones, Cary Evans and Kevin Shuvalov.Matea Gold contributed reporting.