Political MemoChoice of Paul Ryan Shifts the Focus From Economy to IdeologyCredit...Eric Thayer for The New York TimesAug. 15, 2012DES MOINES — Four years ago, John Brooks cast his ballot for Barack Obama, becoming one of the voters won over by his promise for changing Washington. This time, he had been undecided, but he said Mitt Romney made his decision easier by placing Representative Paul D. Ryan on the Republican ticket. The choice pushed him back to President Obama, said Mr. Brooks, 43, a sales manager at a Chevrolet dealership, who said that until now he had thought Mr. Romney was really a moderate, and he had been open to voting for him before he picked a running mate whose views on the budget he found extreme. “Romney and someone else could have been a great team,” Mr. Brooks said Wednesday, a day after meeting the president at a restaurant in Cedar Falls, Iowa, during a stop on Mr. Obama’s three-day bus tour of the state. The selection of Mr. Ryan, Republican of Wisconsin, has energized the party’s base and brought fresh enthusiasm and bigger crowds to the Romney campaign. It also has awakened casual Democratic voters like Mr. Brooks who recoil at a Republican budget and tax policy they see as unfair to the middle class. But the past several days have also brought evidence of a subtle but broad strategic shift by Mr. Romney, one that many Congressional Republicans are concerned could divert attention from job creation, the issue they think will work best for the party. In the midst of an election in which few voters have not already taken sides, he is now running a campaign more focused on energizing an anti-Obama coalition than on trying to expand the universe of Romney voters with an argument that he is the most qualified economic steward. Mr. Obama has been responding in kind, opening a deeply divisive period in the race in which firing up hard-core partisans is taking priority over trying to pursue relatively small numbers of undecided voters in the middle. This week has unfolded in a series of harsh exchanges between the candidates, with the president mocking his rival’s character, and Mr. Romney accusing Mr. Obama of disgracing the presidency by waging a “campaign of division and anger and hate.”Persuasion, especially on the Republican side, has given way to partisan stimulation. A sharp focus on the economy is giving way to ideology and personality.For months, Mr. Romney tried making inroads among voters who were disappointed with, but not necessarily angry at, Mr. Obama. Republican groups have run television advertisements taking a softer approach by telling voters to feel no guilt for not supporting Mr. Obama.Yet after a summer of pummeling from Democrats, Mr. Romney is returning the scorching fire in hopes of expanding his support among Republicans who more than anything want to turn Mr. Obama out of office in November. The traditional balance between motivating core supporters without scaring off independent voters may be different in this election cycle, strategists in both parties say, because such a small share of people are truly independent and potentially open to either candidate. A series of recent polls in six swing states showed that only 5 percent of voters were undecided and only about 1 in 10 likely voters who had chosen a candidate said they were open to switching.ImageCredit...Damon Winter/The New York TimesAt this point four years ago, more than 1 in 4 voters nationwide said they might change their minds. “There is a smaller slice of undecided voters out there than usual,” said Joel Benenson, the chief pollster for the president’s re-election campaign. Republicans, he said, “may think that their only chance of winning this is by maximizing their base, but I don’t believe this election is a base election.”For Mr. Obama, there is probably more of an opportunity to capture some moderate voters who oppose the direction that Mr. Ryan, chairman of the House Budget Committee, and other House Republicans have moved in. But Mr. Obama still has to persuade some centrists that he can be trusted with the deficit and the economy and that he is not culturally out of step with them.The strategic shifts by the candidates mirror a bigger change in the nature of the race. It is no longer solely a referendum on the economic record of Mr. Obama; rather, on the choice of approaches over the future of Medicare, the popular health insurance program for retirees, and the role and scope of government.The Romney campaign is testing whether it can expand the successful Republican coalition from 2010, when the party, on the basis of an anti-Obama and very conservative message, won control of the House and expanded its strength at all levels of government. It is not simply a base strategy, aides said, but a plan to capitalize on the rejection of Mr. Obama’s approach that they say is coursing through the country.“We’re going to be able to make a very compelling argument to people in the middle that we need a change and Obama isn’t the change they signed up for,” said Neil Newhouse, the pollster for Mr. Romney. “When you really probe, people are upset with spending, the deficit and the debt. It goes beyond jobs and the economy, and there is a sense things are out of control.”For Mr. Romney, several benefits of selecting Mr. Ryan have already become clear. He has finally drawn praise from conservatives, including those who have long been tepid. And he has become a stronger and more confident campaigner with a partner at his side, advisers say, who has an easygoing style that could help improve Mr. Romney’s connection to voters. The Romney campaign is taking pains to track down and quash any criticism in Republican circles about any potential downsides of Mr. Ryan on the ticket, including that the campaign debate over Medicare is fraught with risk for other candidates in the party. Interviews with nearly a dozen Republicans on Congressional and Senate campaigns said in near unison that they worried that the economic focus of the race had been overshadowed.It is a question that may not be answered until Election Day. Will a surge of conservative enthusiasm for the Republican ticket outweigh any potential falloff among voters who supported Mr. Obama in 2008 and are open to changing their minds this year? Mr. Brooks, the Iowa man who had counted himself in that category, said his mind was made up before Mr. Obama unexpectedly stopped by his table at the Pump Haus restaurant in downtown Cedar Falls on Tuesday.“We had no idea he was showing up,” he said. “We really didn’t talk politics.”