In his announcement Wednesday that he wouldn't sign a "religious freedom" bill that had reached his desk, Arkansas Gov. Asa Hutchinson (R) offered a personal example of the contentiousness of the issue."My son Seth signed the petition asking me to veto the bill," he said.Given Hutchinson's son's politics, that's not a big surprise. Seth Hutchinson is an organizer with the Texas State Employees Union and has been "a progressive since college days," according to this Arkansas Times story.But there's another reason it's not a surprise: Seth Hutchinson is a generation younger than his father. And in the politics of gay rights, that makes a big difference.The closest such metric that's been measured the most consistently in recent years is the level of support for gay marriage. Last May, Gallup reported that nearly 80 percent of people aged 18 to 29 support the legalization of gay marriage, compared with 42 percent of those 65 and older. (Asa Hutchinson is 64 -- in the group that was at 48 percent support in the poll.) Younger people have consistently been more supportive of legalized gay marriage, but the margin at this point is wide.What's more, gay marriage is supported by a wide majority of young Republicans, according to a survey from Pew Research last March. It found a slightly lower level of support among young people, but still a big difference in support by generation.And it goes beyond gay marriage. On Tuesday, the Daily Beast declared millennials to be the "gayest generation," based on how many identify as gay or bisexual. We noted a poll earlier this week showing that more millennials -- those born between 1980 and the early 2000s -- considered homosexual relationships to be less immoral than casual sex. That's a stark difference from their parents -- governor or no.The debate over religious freedom bills isn't only a debate over the rights of gay couples, but it has certainly become a proxy for that fight. Asa Hutchinson's generation is still the one in power, but it's Seth Hutchinson's generation that seems to be calling the shots on gay rights.Seth certainly won this battle.Update: In a message on Facebook, Seth Hutchinson responded to his father's decision.