Credit...Brian Snyder/ReutersApril 18, 2015NASHUA, N.H. — They attacked her judgment on resetting American relations with Russia and protecting American diplomats in Libya. They slammed her as secretive for using a personal email account at the State Department and deleting messages in the face of scrutiny. They mocked her recent campaign events in Iowa as inauthentic and her unannounced lunch at Chipotle as antisocial. They even reached back to her husband’s infidelity to disparage her.An energized, confident bench of 19 presidential candidates and potential contenders took turns taking shots at Hillary Rodham Clinton or competing with her on policy ideas at a Republican gathering in the ballroom of the Crowne Plaza hotel here, the first high-profile political event since Mrs. Clinton announced her bid for the White House last Sunday. Senator Rand Paul of Kentucky made a robust argument against Mrs. Clinton on Saturday over the disintegration of Libya, her State Department email and the Clinton Foundation’s acceptance of contributions from foreign nations, including some with poor records on women’s rights. But he was especially harsh when he talked about the insurgent attack in Benghazi, Libya, in 2012 that led to the death of Ambassador J. Christopher Stevens and three other Americans.“I think her dereliction of duty, her not doing her job” on Benghazi, “should forever preclude her from holding high office,” Mr. Paul said to a standing ovation.Gov. Scott Walker of Wisconsin repeatedly laced into Mrs. Clinton as well, charging that she “thinks the way to grow the economy is to grow Washington” and would not reform federal entitlement programs that many Democrats cherish. He also cast her as out of touch by contrasting his discount shopping habits with hers: “I doubt that the presumptive nominee for the other party has ever been to Kohl’s before, let alone shopped in the last 15 to 20 years.” And he had a warning for anyone who believed that Mrs. Clinton would return the United States to the economically prosperous days of the 1990s.“This isn’t a third term of Bill Clinton — this is a third term of Barack Obama,” Mr. Walker said. The attacks by Mr. Paul and Mr. Walker were the most pointed by the Republican hopefuls on the former secretary of state. Responding to a question on whether Mrs. Clinton might face a primary challenge from within her Democratic Party, Mr. Paul won laughs by cracking that she would soon need two planes: “one for her and her entourage and one for her baggage.”A Clinton spokesman declined to comment on the myriad Republican criticisms. But even as they tested out those lines of attack, the candidates made it clear that they were not quite ready to give up their assault on President Obama. While Mrs. Clinton presents a fresher target, several Republicans chose to take on Mr. Obama’s economic record and his engagement with Iran and Cuba, an indication that they believe he still stirs conservative audiences as much as his would-be Democratic successor.The two-day event here in New Hampshire, where the nation’s first primary will be held early next year, showcased the talents, tactics and breadth of the Republican field. The 2012 presidential race featured several Republicans who made little impression on the party’s voters, who have typically nominated longtime leaders (Ronald Reagan, the elder George Bush, Bob Dole, John McCain) or high-profile governors with strong networks of donors (George W. Bush, Mitt Romney).The race for the 2016 Republican nomination has a mix of prominent candidates and lesser-known but fiery ones. The critiques here on Friday and Saturday showed the bluntness of some of the candidates, the humor of others and the strategic interests of several — including those who chose not to mention Mrs. Clinton and to introduce themselves to voters in a more positive light. And all of them sought to project the experience, knowledge and steeliness needed to take on a politician of Mrs. Clinton’s stature.Former Gov. Jeb Bush of Florida talked at length on Friday about his record of creating jobs and increasing graduation rates. He presented an implied contrast not only with Mrs. Clinton but also with his less-experienced Republican rivals, like Senator Marco Rubio, also of Florida. “Accomplishment matters; leadership matters,” Mr. Bush said. “Who sits behind the big desk as it relates to the presidency is different than perhaps United States senator or another job.” Mr. Bush also made a glancing comment about the scant Democratic opposition to Mrs. Clinton, noting that he expected a tough fight for the Republican nomination.“I don’t see any coronation coming my way,” he said in response to a question from one of the 600 people in the audience. In a nod to the many other Republicans running or likely to run, he joked, “I’m really intimidating a whole bunch of folks, aren’t I?”ImageCredit...Ian Thomas Jansen-Lonnquist for The New York TimesMr. Rubio offered ambitious ideas for restructuring the nation’s higher education system, such as having colleges tell students how much money they might earn with certain degrees before they take out loans. But first, he warmed up the crowd by noting that Mrs. Clinton might try to raise as much as $2.5 billion for her campaign. “That’s a lot of Chipotle, my friends,” he said to laughter.Another former governor, Rick Perry of Texas, who came off as ill prepared in the 2012 presidential campaign, took Mrs. Clinton to task on foreign policy in an effort to show off three years of what he called “intense study.” “She’s the one that literally brought the reset button to the Kremlin,” Mr. Perry said, referring to Mrs. Clinton’s presenting the Russian foreign minister in 2009 with a mistranslated red plastic button to “reset” relations. “They did reset us, that’s for sure. They reset us back to pre-1989.”Senator Ted Cruz of Texas took a lighter tack, joking that he thought he had seen Mrs. Clinton here, but must have been wrong because “y’all don’t have any foreign nations paying speakers, right?” — a reference to some overseas donations to her family foundation.While lesser-known possible candidates like the former United Nations ambassador John R. Bolton and former Gov. James S. Gilmore III of Virginia laced into Mrs. Clinton as well, Gov. Chris Christie of New Jersey did not mention her once. He has not spent as much time in New Hampshire as some other candidates, and he chose to focus on introducing his own policy ideas, like major changes to Social Security, Medicare and Medicaid. But Mr. Christie did take a shot at Mr. Obama that could also apply to a future Democratic president.“We can no longer afford to have weakness in the Oval Office,” he said. “We need strength and clarity and hard truths.”Only occasionally did the Republicans go after one another. Mr. Walker, asked by a reporter about his chances against Mr. Bush for their party’s nomination, argued that voters in New Hampshire and elsewhere were looking for a different breed of candidate than a third Bush would represent. “They want a new fresh face, particularly if we’re going to as a party take on Hillary Clinton,” he said.Mr. Paul, without naming names, noted his difference of opinion with Mr. Bush and Senator Lindsey Graham of South Carolina over confirming Loretta E. Lynch as attorney general, which Mr. Paul opposes, and he separated himself from foreign policy hawks in the party. “There’s a group of folks in our party who would have troops in six countries right now, maybe more,” Mr. Paul said. Some possible candidates, like Mr. Rubio and Mr. Graham, have called for a more interventionist foreign policy that could include additional American ground troops in the Middle East.The candidates spoke before New Hampshire party activists and elected officials who came primed, after a week of news coverage about Mrs. Clinton’s presidential bid, to hear a robust Republican rebuttal.In the 30 minutes they each had to engage the audience through speeches, question-and-answer exchanges or both, the 19 Republicans faced the tactical decisions of whether to attack Mrs. Clinton openly or target her in subtler ways, and whether to go after her in personal terms or on policy — or ignore her altogether. Mr. Graham predicted that Mrs. Clinton would become more central as the election got closer, but said Republican animosity toward Mr. Obama made him a more resonant target right now.“I have never seen anything like this,” Mr. Graham said in an interview, referring to Republican contempt for Mr. Obama. He noted that it was even more deep-seated than their anger toward President Clinton, whom Republicans impeached. “That’s a pretty high bar,” he said dryly. (Mr. Clinton was acquitted by the Senate.)ImageCredit...Ian Thomas Jansen-Lonnquist for The New York TimesHitting Mrs. Clinton hard was the sort of red meat for which some audience members were hungering, but getting too personal carried the political risk of appearing minor league. By being memorable for attacking Mrs. Clinton, candidates risked losing a chance to define themselves in a positive way and highlight differences with their Republican rivals. After all, the party nomination still has to be won.Party activists, in speeches interspersed with those of the presidential hopefuls, were more cutting in their attacks on Mrs. Clinton, and state party officials handed out red bumper stickers that read “#StopHillary.”The gathering was believed to be the first of its kind in New Hampshire, reflecting the determination of the state party to showcase its political might over the next 19 months. Its goal is to bring New Hampshire back to the Republican column in the 2016 general election, after Mr. Obama’s victories here in 2012 and 2008 and John Kerry’s narrow win over George W. Bush in 2004. Mr. Bush carried the state in 2000. Operatives from the Republican National Committee, on their own panel, expressed confidence that they could damage Mrs. Clinton based on her record, especially at the State Department.“On their side, they have Hillary or nothing,” said Sean Spicer, the committee’s communications director. “They’re trying to figure out how to groom Chelsea.”Some of the sharpest attacks on Mrs. Clinton came from Republicans who are virtually nowhere in the polls and are looking for ways to get attention.Perhaps the most personal remark came from Carly Fiorina, the former business executive, when she made an unmistakable reference to Mr. Clinton’s affair with the White House intern Monica Lewinsky. Discussing a cable TV segment in which questions were raised about whether women had the hormonal capacity to serve as president, Ms. Fiorina said sarcastically, “Not that we have seen a man’s judgment being clouded by hormones, including in the Oval Office.”