  With tens of million of drivers expected to hit the road this Memorial Day weekend, none of them will be thrilled to see that the price of gas is at its highest price in nearly a decade.  According to AAA, gas prices are up 58% from a year ago with an average gallon costing drivers $3.04.  Gas prices in the United States soared earlier this month after the Colonial Pipeline, the East Coast’s primary gasoline supply line fell victim to a ransomware attack that took its operations offline for six days.    A fuel truck driver checks the gasoline tank level at a United Oil gas station in Sunset Blvd., in Los Angeles. (Damian Dovarganes/AP)   Drivers in the Southeast are expected to feel their wallets straining more than anywhere else in the country. AAA has already warned drivers that they could experience gas shortages in that area due to high demand because of the desire for people to get out of their homes following a pandemic lasting more than a year.   “Everyone wants to get out,” said Patric De Haan, head of petroleum analysis at GasBuddy, to CNBC. “If there’s any hiccup in the system this summer, it’s going to be hard to fuel up.”  De Haan also expressed little worry about if another supply line of gas where to be either attacked like the Colonial Pipeline or damaged during a summer storm.   “Usually when prices go up 50 cents, people say they’ll just stay home, but not this year, with the pent-up demand. If there’s any kinks in the system, it could get ugly,” he said.  However, there is more worry about the lack of tank truck drivers who drive the gas to various gas stations. According to the National Tank Truck Carriers, a quarter of tanker trucks are estimated to lie idle due to a lack of manpower and drivers. The dramatic shortage dates back to a time before the pandemic, but the lockdowns and restrictions have only exacerbated the problem.  Gas prices usually dip before the July 4 holiday, but with such a sensitive supply chain, there is widespread worry among experts that prices may not go down or worse, they may skyrocket again.  