    
CEDAR FALLS, Iowa - Hillary Clinton on Tuesday said she wants the State Department to publicly release her emails as soon as possible but that she has limited say over the matter.  “Anything that they might do to expedite that process I heartily support,” she said to reporters after a roundtable in Cedar Falls, Iowa. “I want the American people to learn as much as they can about the work I did with our diplomats and our development experts.”  “Nobody has a bigger interest in getting them released than I do,” she said.  In a rare response to questions from the press while on the campaign trail, the Democratic frontrunner said she has limited say over the timetable.  Her comments came a few hours after federal judge has rejected the State Department’s plan to release most of Clinton’s emails as secretary of state in one large batch, possibly in January 2016. The judge instead insisted that the agency parcel out releases of the records over time.  “They’re not mine,” Clinton said about her emails. “The State Department has to go through its process, but as much as they can expedite the process, that’s what I’m asking them to do.”  Clinton’s emails have become the object of intense interest due to revelations that she maintained a private email server while she was secretary of state and due to allegations of conflicts of interest related to the Clinton Foundation.  During the event Clinton also again declined to take sides in Washington’s brewing trade debate on Tuesday, instead expressing caution about the proposed Trans-Pacific Partnership agreement on the second and final day of her latest swing through Iowa.  “This is obviously a very hot topic right now,” said Clinton in response to a question about the deal from an Iowan sitting next to her at a round table at a bike store and repair shop. “I’ve been very clear on this,” she added, noting that she wants the deal to increase American job security, wages, and national security. She also expressed concern about currency manipulation and a provision to give corporations “more power to overturn health and environmental and labor rules than consumers have.”  But Clinton did not expressly say whether she supported or opposed the agreement she helped negotiate as secretary of state, as many liberals have pressed her to do.  “I have said I want to judge the final agreement,” she said. “I have been for trade agreements, I have been against trade agreements.”  Speaking to locals in the shop that recently used government grants and tax credits to move into an old post office in Cedar Falls, Clinton — who declared “I want to be a small business president” — said she wanted to cut red tape for businesses, simplify their tax filing processes, and use technology to “expand access for small businesses into new markets, whether it is across town, across the state, or across the world.”  “It should not take longer to start a business in America than it does in Canada or France,” she said. “I didn’t learn this from politics, I learned this from my father, who was a small business man.”  The Democratic front-runner, who at one point joked that she would take questions from the press “if I can learn something,” also expanded on her plans for community banks, which she said should not be subject to the same restrictions as the big financial institutions: “It’s not the big banks that need relief from Washington,” she told the room of local elected officials and small business owners.  Clinton’s comments came on the second day of her second trip to the early-voting state as a candidate. She is due in Chicago to attend fundraising events on Wednesday before heading to New Hampshire on Friday. 
