Credit...Stephen Crowley/The New York TimesJune 1, 2015WASHINGTON — The fractious debate over restarting the government’s sweeping surveillance program is expected to reach its final Senate showdown on Tuesday, when defense hawks make an urgent appeal to preserve more power for security agencies to gain access to Americans’ phone records.But if the hawks prevail and push too far, many members of the House said they would reject the Senate approach, meaning that the surveillance program would remain largely blacked out until a compromise was reached. The program lapsed at 12:01 a.m. Monday because opponents of surveillance refused to extend it through the legislative fight.Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the majority leader, and an ally, Senator Richard Burr of North Carolina, the Intelligence Committee chairman, plan one last attempt to amend the USA Freedom Act, which the House passed and which the two senators once denounced as an impediment to national security. Both men have declared the bill a dangerous retrenchment from national security programs put in place after the attacks of Sept. 11, 2001, even though the House overwhelmingly passed the legislation, with the backing of both Speaker John A. Boehner, Republican of Ohio, and President Obama.The White House on Monday pressed for the Senate to refrain from making substantive changes to the legislation, arguing that with the authorizations lapsed, this was no time to add provisions that could lead to a lengthy parliamentary back-and-forth on Capitol Hill.“The Senate should not get into a game where they start adding amendments to this piece of legislation that then requires House consideration again,” Josh Earnest, the White House press secretary, said at his daily briefing.Before what appears to be the legislation’s inevitable passage, as early as Tuesday, defense hawks in the Senate would like to take credit for significant changes to address objections they had raised that delayed the vote on the House bill. That delay led to the program’s blackout.But too many changes would upset the bipartisan coalition that shepherded the bill through the House last month. Already, libertarian-minded Republicans in the House are warning that they will push for amendments to any bill that strays too far from the current version.“The best thing for the Senate to do is to take up the House bill and send it to the president,” Representative Kevin McCarthy, a California Republican and the majority leader, said.The most problematic proposal would strike a provision in the House bill that was pushed by civil libertarians. It would declassify opinions by the secret surveillance court that are considered novel or significant.Representative Jerrold Nadler, Democrat of New York and one of the bill’s architects, called that “obnoxious to an extreme” and a violation of one of the bill’s central goals — to end the “secret body of law” that has operated since 9/11. If the declassification provision passes, Mr. Nadler predicted, the House will not even take up the Senate bill.It was unclear how many amendments had the potential to pass. Their fate rests largely on a handful of security-minded Democrats and about four Republicans who co-sponsored a version of the House bill.“We want to make changes to strengthen the bill without derailing the bill,” said Senator Angus King, independent of Maine, who supports the four amendments offered by Republicans. Many of the bill’s supporters are crossing their fingers that the House would accept such changes.On Monday, Mr. McConnell made a final attempt to pass the bill quickly on the floor, noting with exasperation, “It’s time to get the job done.” But Senator Rand Paul, Mr. McConnell’s fellow Kentucky Republican, learned of the majority leader’s plans and objected. Mr. Paul, an ardent critic of the surveillance effort, had ensured the lapse of the program by blocking short-term extensions.Under the House bill now being considered by the Senate, the telephone companies, rather than the National Security Agency, would store reams of so-called metadata, all the calls placed between phone numbers, call durations and dates. Those databases could be shown to the government only through a warrant from the secret Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court. Senate hawks want to extend the transition to that system from six months to a year, and to add a requirement that the technology used to store and search the data be certified by the director of national intelligence.Another amendment would require the phone companies to notify the government of any changes in data storage policies that would reduce storage periods to less than 18 months.“These fixes are common sense,” Mr. McConnell said Monday. “And whatever one thinks of the proposed new system, there needs to be a basic assurance that it will function as its proponents say it will.”The White House strongly objected to the proposal to extend the time period for transitioning the data collection program from one run by the N.S.A. to one essentially operated by the telephone companies.“It’s something that the administration views as completely unnecessary,” Mr. Earnest said. “We are confident that six-month time period would give our national security professionals ample time to implement these reforms, but if for some reason that amount of time is judged to be insufficient, the president has directed his national security team to go back to Congress and ask for additional time.”Mr. Paul and Senator Ron Wyden, Democrat of Oregon, also offered up amendments on Monday — one to require that probable cause be established before phone records are released to the government; one to prohibit searches from being aimed at corporations, not just individuals; and one to allow evidence uncovered by warrantless spying to be challenged and suppressed as evidence against Americans in trials that do not involve terrorism. Mr. Burr blocked consideration of those amendments.Passage of any changes to the bill would extend the blackout of the surveillance programs because they would require the House to reconsider the legislation. The bipartisan leaders of the House Judiciary Committee — the primary authors of the bill — demanded a clean vote on the final bill, with no amendments considered, so it could be sent quickly to the president and restore surveillance authority.“These amendments only serve to weaken the House-passed bill and postpone timely enactment of legislation that responsibly protects national security while enhancing civil liberty protections,” the four Judiciary leaders said in a joint statement.A bigger impediment might be libertarian-minded House Republicans who were denied the chance to further limit the government’s authority when the USA Freedom Act went before the Judiciary Committee and to the House floor. The argument then was that any tampering with the careful compromise would upset the bill and leave the surveillance program unchanged. If senators now make changes to the bill, House members may demand their own chance to amend it, stretching out the legislative process — as well as the surveillance blackout.“They played chicken with the clock, and they lost,” Mr. Nadler said of the Senate leadership, demanding passage of the House bill without changes.