    Justice Antonin Scalia argued that the court needed to step in. A key provision in one of the U.S.’s best known civil rights laws, the Voting Rights Act, received a highly skeptical and sometimes downright hostile response from the conservative justices at the Supreme Court on Wednesday.  During contentious oral arguments, several liberal justices argued vigorously in favor of preserving a portion of the 1965 law which requires parts or all of 16 states to get permission from the Justice Department or a court before changing voting requirements or redrawing election districts.  However, the court’s conservatives seemed persuaded that when Congress renewed the Voting Rights Act for another 25 years in 2006, lawmakers lacked a sufficient basis for essentially keeping as is the list of states subject to the unusual pre-approval rule, known as Section 5.  Justice Antonin Scalia argued that the court needed to step in because the overwhelming, bipartisan vote in favor of renewing the law in 2006 showed that lawmakers were reluctant to disturb what amounted to a “racial entitlement.”  “I think it is attributable, very likely attributable, to a phenomenon that is called perpetuation of racial entitlement,” Scalia said. “Whenever a society adopts racial entitlements, it is very difficult to get out of them through the normal political processes….This is not the kind of a question you can leave to Congress. There are certain districts in the House that are black districts by law just about now.”  The conservative justices seemed to have the votes to strike the provision down.  Scalia suggested that regardless of the facts, lawmakers were very reluctant to disturb the law for fear for being accused of racism. “Even the name of it is wonderful: the Voting Rights Act,” he said sarcastically. “Who is going to vote against that in the future?”  No other justice responded immediately to Scalia’s comments, but Justice Sonia Sotomayor made clear a few minutes later that she was irked by Scalia’s language.  “Do you think that the right to vote is a racial entitlement in Section 5?…Do you think Section 5 was voted for because it was a racial entitlement?” she asked lawyer Bert Rein, who argued for Alabama’s Shelby County that the provision should be struck down.  “No,” said Rein, who said the measure was Congress’s response “to a problem of race discrimination which it thought was prevalent in certain jurisdictions.”  Earlier, Rein began his argument by arguing that there had been “unmistakable” change in the South in the nearly half-century since the the law was passed.  That assertion, too, provoked Sotomayor.  “Assuming some portions of the South have changed, your county pretty much hasn’t,” she interjected. She said Rein was arguing for “a county whose record is the epitome of what caused the passage of the [law] in the first place.”  “You may be the wrong party bringing this,” Sotomayor said .  Justice Elena Kagan noted that Alabama has no statewide officials who are black. “You’re objecting to a [coverage] formula, but any formula Congress could devise would capture Alabama,” she said. Solicitor General Donald Verrilli, who defended the law, urged the justices not to second-guess Congress’s assessment in 2006 that the law was still needed. “It would be extraordinary to look behind the judgment of Congress,” he said.  Chief Justice Roberts asked no questions at all during Rein’s arguments, saving all his probing for Solicitor General Donald Verrilli’s defense of the statute.  “Is it the government’s submission that the citizens of the South are more racist than the citizens of the North?” Roberts asked.  “It is not and I don’t know the answer to that,” Verrilli replied.  Roberts said that African-American voters in Massachusetts, which is not covered by the pre-clearance requirement, are less likely to be registered and less likely to vote than black voters in covered states like Mississippi.  Justice Samuel Alito also went state by state, suggesting it made little sense to require pre-approval of voting changes in Virginia and Arizona, but not in Tennessee or Nevada.  Justice Anthony Kennedy, who serves as a swing vote in some close cases, seemed to view the law as — at this point — an unfair intrusion on states that should have the authority to govern their own affairs.  “Section 5 was utterly necessary in 1965. No doubt about that,” Kennedy said. “The Marshall Plan was very good, too, the Morrill Act, the Northwest Ordinance, but times change.”  Kennedy said Congress “didn’t have the time or energy” in 2006 to weed through the states individually and decide which should still be covered so it punted and adopted the earlier formula.  “There here is a federalism interest in each State being responsible to ensure that it has a political system that acts in a democratic and a civil and a decent and proper and a constitutional way,” Kennedy said  Based on their questions and statements Wednesday, Roberts, Scalia, Kennedy and Alito seemed likely to strike down the disputed part of the Voting Rights Act.  Justice Thomas, as is his custom, asked no questions Wednesday. However, he wrote a dissenting opinion in 2009 that argued that the law as written is unconstitutional. Together, those justices would have the five votes needed to knock out the provision.  Sotomayor, Kagan, and Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg seemed inclined to uphold the provision.  Justice Stephen Breyer was harder to read, but seemed to be leaning in favor of deferring to Congress’s judgment that the rule was still needed.  The pre-clearance requirement currently applies in most or all of nine states and lesser portions of seven others. The bulk of the population covered by the measure is in southern states. It requires every change in voting districts and procedures — from the relocation of a polling place to a new voter identification law to a statewide redistricting — win the approval of the Justice Department or a panel of federal judges before taking effect. In 2009, the Supreme Court issued a ruling that election law specialists interpreted as a clear warning that Section 5 was in jeopardy.  “The evil that [Section] 5 is meant to address may no longer be concentrated in the jurisdictions singled out for preclearance. The statute’s coverage formula is based on data that is now more than 35 years old, and there is considerable evidence that it fails to account for current political conditions,” Chief Justice John Roberts wrote in an opinion joined by seven other justices.  That ruling, in Northwest Austin Municipal Utility District No. 1 v. Holder, spared the pre-clearance portion of the law at that time. The court’s majority said an opportunity in the law to “bail out” of the pre-approval requirement was sufficient to render the law constitutional in that instance. However, the court signaled that the pre-clearance provision’s days were numbered.  Prior to the 2012 election, the Justice Department used the pre-clearance requirement to block voter ID laws in Texas and South Carolina. Judicial panels rejected efforts to implement both measures last year, but judges said South Carolina’s law would be permitted to take effect for future elections.  If the court strikes down Section 5, the Voting Rights Act will not simply go away. Its central provision allowing lawsuits against any state or local jurisdiction that interferes with or limits minority voting rights will remain in place.  However, civil rights groups and the Obama Administration argue that such lawsuits won’t be as effective at preventing such interference as the pre-approval process has proven to be.  Wednesday’s argument drew a wide array of civil rights leaders to the courtroom, including Jesse Jackson and Al Sharpton. Despite indications that a majority of the justices were dubious about the law, some civil rights leaders insisted the case was still a toss-up.  ”Clearly, I think that we left not knowing where the court will go,” Sharpton said following the session. “There was aggressive arguments on both sides…..This could go either way, which means we must leave here determined that if they vote against us we go back to the streets the same way we got the vote in the first place.”  “If the court chooses to strike down Section 5 of the Voting Rights Act, then we understand what our mission is,” said Martin Luther King III, son of the famous civil rights leader. “Even if the court says it will stand, there still is work to do.”  Emily Schultheis contributed reporting to this story. 
