  A presidential gaffe when talking about the fight against ISIL.   
Continue to article content President Barack Obama still doesn’t have a strategy to combat the Islamic State.  Back in September, Obama created a political problem for himself by saying “we don’t have a strategy yet” to combat the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant, or ISIL.  On Monday, speaking at the end of a G-7 summit in Germany that included a meeting with new Iraqi Prime Minister Haider al-Abadi, he rearranged the words and added an adjective, but said the same thing about training Iraqi troops to fight ISIL: “We don’t yet have a complete strategy,” Obama said.  The nuances of military planning don’t make for good sound bites.  To critics, this kind of statement is Obama admitting exactly what they accuse him of: that he’s a president neither prepared for what he’s facing in the Middle East nor willing to do what now needs to be done.  “What has President Obama been doing for the last 10 months?” read a statement put out by the Republican National Committee immediately after Monday’s news conference.  The comments immediately lit up 2016 Republican presidential candidates.  Former Texas Gov. Rick Perry’s campaign put out a statement saying still not having a strategy is a “failure of leadership.”  “If I were commander in chief, it would not take nine months to work with our military leaders to develop a complete strategy to destroy ISIS and protect American security interests and values,” Perry said.  “10 months in and Pres. Obama’s anti-ISIS action has failed. We should unleash our air power to destroy ISIS,” tweeted Texas Sen. Ted Cruz.  Jeb Bush said on Twitter: “In Germany, Obama admitted again what has been clear for a while, he has no ISIS strategy. A serious effort to defeat them is needed.”  And South Carolina Senator Lindsey Graham weighed in calling it “commander-in-chief malpractice.”  “It’s long past time we upped our game to confront this dangerous and growing threat to the American homeland,” Graham said in a statement.  Obama’s approach, they say, is more evidence of a commander in chief who’s consistently slow on the uptake — Obama called ISIL the “JV team” of terrorists just months before they overran the Iraq-Syrian border, seizing major territory and resources and executing American hostages.  The reason that there isn’t a complete strategy so far, Obama said, is that “it requires commitments on the part of the Iraqis as well about how recruitment takes place, how that training takes place. The details of that are not yet worked out.”  Obama added that the Pentagon is busy drawing up plans in consultation with the Iraqis, and once he’s brought a plan that he can sign off on, he’ll make the details public.  The gaffe comes at a moment when the White House is trying to push back on a stream of bad news coming out of Iraq, insisting that despite setbacks, the overall story on combating ISIL is one of progress.  This hasn’t been an easy case for the administration to make. A major part of the problem, Obama was trying to explain, is that ISIL forces are “nimble and they’re aggressive and they’re opportunistic,” compared with Iraqi troops, who aren’t showing up in the numbers they need to and aren’t ready for the fight when they do.  That’s compounded, Obama said, by an international community that might want to step in, but not before the Iraqis get their own situation together.  “One of the things that we’re seeing in Iraq is that we’ve got more training capacity than we have recruits,” Obama said.  “A big part of the answer there is outreach to Sunni tribes,” Obama added, which “has not been happening as fast as it needs to.”  Voicing concerns like this has not gone over well with the Iraqis in the past. Defense Secretary Ash Carter created a momentary commotion when he said in an interview last month that Iraqi forces showed “no will to fight.” That prompted a rushed call from Vice President Joe Biden to the Iraqi prime minister, to recognize “the enormous sacrifice and bravery of Iraqi forces over the past 18 months in Ramadi and elsewhere,” the White House said in its official read-out of the call.  Public relations on ISIL haven’t been going well for the administration. Last month, the White House put out celebratory news of a raid on an ISIL compound that had killed a major figure in the organization’s finances and captured his wife for what was all but acknowledged as a future of harsh interrogations. The next day, ISIL showed it was still a force to be reckoned with by seizing Ramadi.  “We want to get more Iraqi security forces trained, fresh, well equipped and focused, and [Prime Minister] Abadi wants the same thing,” Obama said, trying to minimize any disagreements between the two governments.  It’s just, Obama said, that what al-Abadi wants may not matter all that much.  Al-Abadi “inheriting a legacy of a lot of mistrust between groups in Iraq,” Obama said, and may not be able to get his own government together to pass a national guard law, or much else.  Nor are Iraqis the only ones causing headaches, Obama said. They can’t get the Turkish government on the same page for securing the border with Syria, leading to a constant flow of new fighters, even as they capture and kill ISIL forces.  “Not all of that is preventable, but a lot of it is preventable if we’ve got better cooperation, better coordination, better intelligence, if we are monitoring what’s happening at the Turkish-Syrian border more effectively,” Obama said.  So they’ll have a strategy, Obama said, and hopefully it’ll be built with Iraqi help. But the model isn’t one with a great track record: the joint operations that helped defeat the Islamic State’s predecessor, Al Qaeda in Iraq, in 2006 during the Iraq War.  “Without that kind of participation,” Obama said, “even if you have a short-term success, it’s hard to hold.” 
