    In a surprise ruling, the New Jersey state Supreme Court today favored New Jersey Gov. Chris Christie in a dispute with public employee unions and the state legislature over pension cuts.  The 5-2 ruling spares Christie’s signature policy achievement — pension reform — an expected scrapping and immediately improves his standing in his undeclared presidential bid. The decision also gives the state legislature more time to fix the state’s financially troubled pension system.  Patrick Murray, director of the Monmouth University Polling Institute said Christie “dodged a bullet.” A ruling against Christie, he said, would have undercut his claim that he fixed New Jersey’s state finances when he came into office. It was, Murray said, “the best possible solution for him politically” because a “potentially embarrassing situation has gone away.”  The case weighed whether Christie broke his own 2011 pension reform law, which he once described as his “biggest governmental victory.” Christie’s office had said the law would resolve the state’s severely underfunded public pension system and would “bring to an end years of broken promises.” But tax revenues fell far below state projections, leading Christie to make $1.57 billion in additional cuts without consulting the state legislature. Public-sector unions filed a lawsuit in response.  The ruling overturns a lower court decision and frees New Jersey from having to revise its budget for fiscal year 2016, which allocates $1.3 billion to the public pension system — three-tenths of the state’s required contribution. A spokesperson for Christie said last month that as much as $200 million in surplus state revenue could go towards the state pension fund in June. But that represented only about 13 percent of the required funds.  After months of bad news for Christie — indictments of aides in the Bridgegate traffic scandal, plummeting poll numbers at home and nationally — there’s a sense in his orbit that things are finally looking up. The ruling comes as Christie has ramped up his political activity — he was wrapping up a swing in New Hampshire when the decision came down — and he may announce a presidential bid within weeks.  “I think it’s huge,” said Bill Kilberg, who along with his wife, Bobbie, is a major Christie donor. Kilberg is also an expert on labor and employment law. “Obviously it’s important politically, because he won…. He inherited a state that was in terrible fiscal shape, one of the worst in the country, if not the worst. And he’s beginning to pull it out of its disastrous state.”  Kilberg nodded to a series of policy speeches Christie gave in recent weeks on issues including entitlement reform and foreign policy, saying that the court ruling combined with those efforts gave him a boost. Christie is slated to deliver a speech on education reform in Iowa on Thursday. “What you see is somebody who’s not afraid of difficult issues,” Kilberg said, “who deals with them in a forthright manner.”  The court ruling is not, however, likely to be a front-burner issue when Christie heads to Iowa.  “Whether there’s good news or bad news out of the state of New Jersey, it doesn’t have a whole lot of impact,” said Jeff Boeyink, a Christie Iowa adviser. “The only issue people paid much attention to was the issue involving the bridge [Bridgegate] and people are comfortable with that.”  New Jersey’s public pension system, which faces a $40 billion shortfall, was underfunded long before Christie arrived on the scene. From 1997 to 2012, the state failed every year to pay its full annual required contribution.  Christie’s 2011 law attempted to address the shortfall by increasing employee contributions and eliminating cost-of-living adjustments. In exchange, the law said “members of the public-pension systems shall have a contractual right to the annual required contribution amount being made by the member’s employer or by another public entity.” The law required the annual required contributions be made “on a timely basis.”  The public-sector unions maintained that this language required Christie to make the full contribution. But the Christie administration argued that any contractual obligation was voided by the state constitution’s debt limitation clause and appropriations clause — an argument that appeared to resonate with some justices during oral arguments last month. Justice Jaynee LaVecchia told one of the lawyers representing public employees: “You are still arguing for this law to require every legislature for I don’t know how long to put a certain specified amount … in the budget for every single year.”  In the majority opinion, LaVecchia wrote that the 2011 pension law “does not create a legally enforceable contract that is entitled to constitutional protection. The Debt Limitation Clause of the State Constitution interdicts the creation, in this manner, of a legally binding enforceable contract compelling multi-year financial payments in the sizable amounts called for by the statute.”  Justice Barry Albin wrote the dissent, saying that public workers have “protectable contractual rights under the United States Constitution.”  In response to the state decision, Christie’s office issued a statement hailing it as “an important victory” for New Jersey taxpayers and for ”limited, constitutional government that recognizes the proper role of the executive and legislative branches of government.”  The state high court’s decision averts a battle between Democratic lawmakers and the Christie administration. State Democrats had suggested a “millionaire’s tax” that would increase taxes for residents making more than a $1 million a year to fund part of the shortfall — an option Christie rejects. In February, Christie’s pension and health benefits commission issued a report recommending the state freeze existing pension plans, align employee benefits with private-sector plans and move current public employees onto a cash balance plan — a hybrid between a defined-benefit and 401(k)-type plan.  Dean Baker, co-founder of the liberal Center for Economic Policy and Research, said the decision could make unions less likely to want to negotiate with the New Jersey government in the future.  “Nothing the governor agrees to whether it’s Christie or some future governor can be locked in,” he said. “There’s just no point in them negotiating on it.” 
