    President Obama and John Boehner have pointed fingers during the crisis. | AP Photos The who-created-the-sequester narrative is no longer a sideshow — it’s become the main act, as the congressional leadership heads to the White House Friday for the first meeting with the president in months.  Republicans triumphantly argue (with a big assist from Bob Woodward) that President Barack Obama is responsible for the mechanism that set up the massive spending cuts that take effect March 1. But Obama is claiming that all bad things resulting from the sequester — including furloughs and long airport lines — are because Republicans refuse to act responsibly.  The president’s culpability has become such a central GOP talking point that Speaker John Boehner (R-Ohio) often says that the House is absolved from passing a third bill to blunt the cuts until Obama and the Democratic Senate come up with their own plan to replace “the president’s sequester.”  ( See also: Full coverage of the sequestration)  Boehner’s argument, of course, ignores the fact that the Ohio Republican pushed the sequester through the chamber during the 2011 debt limit negotiations and persuaded 174 Republicans to vote for it.  “It was a negotiation,” Boehner said, when asked if he bore any responsibility for the cuts. “I didn’t like it any more than anybody else liked it. But when the president told me, and Harry Reid told me, that they would work with us to get an outcome out of the supercommittee, I felt confident we could get an outcome out of the supercommittee. Unfortunately, we didn’t.”  Boehner then blamed the failure of the supercommittee that was charged with reducing the deficit on “the president of the United States.”  ( PHOTOS: How sequestration could affect you)  With that, congressional leadership now heads to the White House for a last-minute meeting to stop the cuts. Most insiders say the meeting is nothing more than a photo-op. In fact, lawmakers are so certain that nothing will happen that they have already headed home for the weekend.  There is no hint of any agreement in the offing.  “The four of us will be there with the president,” Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid (D-Nev.) said Thursday. “And I would — what I would hope is that the Republicans there — both of them — would agree with the Republicans around the country that we should have a balanced approach to get rid of this and look forward to the sequestration, which is the 27th of next month, get it all done at once. It would be so easy to do.” Boehner said he will offer no new deal to Obama, and additional revenues are out of the question.  “My message at the White House will be the same as what I’m telling you today: It’s time for them to do their job and to pass a bill,” he said Thursday.  ( PHOTOS: What they’re saying about sequestration)  Lawmakers from both parties agree that there’s plenty of blame to go around.  Rep. Walter Jones (R-N.C.), an 18-year veteran of Capitol Hill who voted against the bill that created the sequester said, “Both sides are at fault.”  “Even though this might have been Mr. Obama’s idea or [former Office of Management and Budget Director] Jack Lew’s, you didn’t have to accept it,” Jones said. “If you accept it, you’re part of the problem, too.  Rep. Henry Waxman (D-Calif.), who has been part of scores of legislative compromises during his 38 years in Congress, doesn’t even understand the fight.  “When the Budget Control Act was presented, it was presented as a bill agreed to by Speaker Boehner and President Obama,” said Waxman. “Who is responsible for what part of it doesn’t make a lot of difference. They both supported the total bill. And a lot of the troops on both sides of the aisle voted for it. I’m sure glad I didn’t.”  Criticism is coming from outside, and within, both parties. The sequester fight has seen an unprecedented level of message disunity among House Republicans, who are fighting a single message of “stop” from Obama. All at once, GOP lawmakers say the sequester isn’t harmful, is incredibly dangerous and a “home run.” The GOP was also divided on tactics — with Senate Republicans looking to foist the responsibility of budget cutting on the president, and House Republicans fighting to retain congressional power.  Asked whether his party had any culpability for the cuts, Georgia Rep. Lynn Westmoreland, the No. 2 at the National Republican Congressional Committee, said, “I didn’t vote for it.”  “I don’t think that at least from what I’ve heard from our leadership they’re not denying that they went along with it — but it wasn’t their idea,” Westmoreland said in an interview. “If I’ve got an idea and I sell it to you and then it goes out and we fall off a mountain because my idea didn’t work, you’re going to say, ‘It was his idea, not mine.’ You know what I’m talking about? I agreed to it, but it was his damn idea. Not mine.”  Even Boehner’s defenders admit that who’s to blame doesn’t carry a whole lot of water with a public that is bone tired of a Washington that doesn’t get anything done despite huge problems. “I don’t think politically it matters a great deal to the American people,” Rep. Tom Cole (R-Okla.) said about the fight over who created the sequester. “But I think at the end of the day, it does matter to your negotiating partner.”  The Republican revolution of 2010 — and the GOP’s unyielding desire to battle Democrats to cut spending and curb entitlements — has spurred lots of fascinating tales of Washington intrigue. The fight over matching the debt ceiling with commensurate spending cuts has been going on for well more than a year and has had its share of finger-pointing and entertaining subplots.  The summer of 2011 had the speaker negotiating in secret with the president. A super-secret supercommittee met privately for months to restructure the nation’s entitlements and taxes. That failed, and so did talks between Boehner and Reid, Majority Leader Eric Cantor (R-Va.) and Vice President Joe Biden. Efforts by a former senator and White House chief of staff to cut trillions from the deficit also fell by the wayside.  In a sense, Friday marks the end of another chapter of the 2011 debt ceiling fight, as the automatic budget cuts fill in the gaps that congressional inaction left years ago.  What’s next for Boehner and House Republicans in this fight is unclear. Obama’s attempts to rally the public against the GOP haven’t caused the party to cave on cutting tax loopholes to help lessen the impact of the automatic cuts.  At this point, the Republican leadership has no concrete plan to backfill the cuts, besides a provision in an upcoming government funding bill that would help preserve funding for key national defense programs.  But their tone has changed a bit. In November 2011, Boehner was asked about the prospect of the sequester, well before it became a certainty.  “I would feel bound by it,” Boehner said. “It was part of the agreement. Either we succeed or we’re in the sequester. Why? Because we don’t want anybody to go there.”  Boehner’s aides say he meant the amount of spending reductions, not the specific cuts contained in the sequester. 
