Two are charged in the assault of a Capitol Police officer who died after the Jan. 6 riot.ImageCredit...Anna Moneymaker for The New York TimesTwo men have been charged with assaulting Officer Brian D. Sicknick of the Capitol Police and other officers during the Jan. 6 riot, the Justice Department said on Monday, but prosecutors stopped short of linking the attack to Officer Sicknick’s death the next day.The F.B.I. arrested George Pierre Tanios, 39, of Morgantown, W.Va., and Julian Elie Khater, 32, of State College, Pa., on Sunday. They were charged with conspiracy to injure an officer, assaulting an officer with a dangerous weapon, civil disorder, obstruction of an official proceeding, and other crimes related to violent conduct on the grounds of the Capitol, the Justice Department said.Both appeared via video before federal magistrate judges on Monday. Mr. Tanios will appear in court again on Thursday to determine whether he will remain detained while awaiting trial. In a separate hearing, a lawyer for Mr. Khater indicated that his client intended to plead not guilty.Officer Sicknick and two other police officers were injured “as a result of being sprayed in the face” with an unidentified substance by Mr. Khater and Mr. Tanios, the F.B.I. said in search warrant applications filed in court. The officers were temporarily blinded and had to stop working to get medical attention, the bureau said.Law enforcement officials described the suspects briefly plotting before the attack. The men, who were among the thousands who traveled to the Capitol to protest Congress’s certification of the election results, spoke to each other animatedly, surveillance video showed, and worked together “to assault law enforcement officers with an unknown chemical substance by spraying officers directly in the face and eyes,” an F.B.I. agent said in a court document.Mr. Khater and Mr. Tanios were seen on video early in the afternoon standing five to eight feet away from police officers, including Officer Sicknick, the F.B.I. said.It is not clear whether Officer Sicknick, 42, an Air National Guard veteran who had served in Saudi Arabia and Kyrgyzstan, died because of his exposure to the spray. On Jan. 7, the day he died, the Capitol Police said in a statement that he had been “injured while physically engaging with protesters” at the riot and then “returned to his division office and collapsed.”Capitol Police officials initially said that he had been struck with a fire extinguisher, but later said that his death was not caused by blunt force trauma. In the following days, investigators homed in on the potential role of an irritant as a primary factor in his death.After the F.B.I. posted fliers with photographs of Mr. Khater and Mr. Tanios, a tipster told the bureau that the two men had grown up together in New Jersey, according to court papers. Another person told the F.B.I. that one of the men in the photos looked “very close” to Mr. Tanios, who had “bragged about going to the insurrection at the Capitol on Facebook.”A tipster also identified Mr. Khater as a former colleague at a food establishment in State College, Pa.Deb Haaland is confirmed to lead the Interior Department, making her the first Native American cabinet secretary.ImageCredit...Pool photo by Graeme JenningsRepresentative Deb Haaland of New Mexico made history on Monday when the Senate confirmed her as President Biden’s secretary of the interior, making her the first Native American to lead a cabinet agency. Ms. Haaland became one of the first two Native American women elected to the House in 2018. But her new position is particularly meaningful because the department she now leads has spent much of its history abusing or neglecting America’s Indigenous people.Beyond the Interior Department’s responsibility for the well-being of the nation’s 1.9 million Native people, it oversees about 500 million acres of public land, federal waters off the United States coastline, a huge system of dams and reservoirs across the Western United States, and the protection of thousands of endangered species.Republican opposition to Ms. Haaland’s confirmation centered on her history of fighting against oil and gas exploration, and the deliberations around her nomination highlighted her emerging role in public debates on climate change, energy policy and racial equity. Four Republican senators, Lisa Murkowski and Dan Sullivan of Alaska, Susan Collins of Maine and Lindsey Graham of South Carolina, voted for Ms. Haaland’s confirmation.Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the Republican leader, said supporting her confirmation “would be voting to raise gas prices for families who are already struggling, to raise fuel and heating bills for seniors on a fixed income, to take the tough times we’ve been going through and make them even tougher.”The new interior secretary will be charged with essentially reversing the agency’s mission over the past four years. Led by David Bernhardt, a former oil lobbyist, the Interior Department played a central role in the Trump administration’s systematic rollback of environmental regulations and the opening of the nation’s lands and waters to drilling and mining.Ms. Haaland is expected to quickly halt new drilling, reinstate wildlife conservation rules, expand wind and solar power on public lands and waters, and place the Interior Department at the center of Mr. Biden’s climate agenda.At the same time, she will quite likely assume a central role in realizing Mr. Biden’s promise to make racial equity a theme in his administration. Ms. Haaland, a member of the Laguna Pueblo who identifies herself as a 35th-generation New Mexican, will assume control of the Bureau of Indian Affairs and the Bureau of Indian Education, where she can address the needs of a population that has suffered from abuse and dislocation at the hands of the United States government for generations, and that has been disproportionately devastated by the coronavirus.Biden heralds the deployment of 100 million shots and 100 million stimulus checks.VideotranscripttranscriptBiden: ‘Shots in Arms and Money in Pockets’President Biden declared on Monday that within 10 days the U.S. would achieve his goal of administering 100 million vaccination shots and delivering 100 million stimulus checks to Americans.Over the next 10 days, we’ll reach two goals, two giant goals. The first is 100 million shots in people’s arms will have been completed within the next 10 days and 100 million checks in people’s pockets in the next 100 days. Shots in arms and money in pockets. That’s important. The American Rescue Plan is already doing what it was designed to do, make a difference in people’s everyday lives. And we’re just getting started. By the time all the money is distributed, 85 percent of American households will have gotten their $1,400 rescue checks. I’m pleased to announce and introduce another gifted manager to coordinate our implementation of the American Rescue Plan, Gene Sperling. Gene will be on the phone with mayors and governors, red states, blue states, the source of constant communication, a source of guidance and support, and above all, a source of accountability for all of us to get the job done. And together, we’re going to make sure that the benefits of the American Rescue Plan go out quickly and directly to the American people where they belong. Help is here and hope is here in real and tangible ways. We’re just days away from 100 million shots and millions — in the arms of millions of Americans. That’s the way, that’s the way on the way to get every single American access to the vaccine.President Biden declared on Monday that within 10 days the U.S. would achieve his goal of administering 100 million vaccination shots and delivering 100 million stimulus checks to Americans.CreditCredit...Doug Mills/The New York TimesPresident Biden said Monday that his administration was on pace to achieve two key goals by March 25: the distribution of 100 million shots of Covid-19 vaccines since his inauguration and 100 million checks and electronic deposits of stimulus payments under his economic relief bill.“Shots in arms and money in pockets. That’s important,” Mr. Biden said in a brief address from the White House.The president also introduced Gene Sperling, a longtime Democratic policy aide, as his pick to oversee implementation of the $1.9 trillion economic relief package that he signed into law late last week.“The American Rescue Plan is already doing what it was designed to do,” Mr. Biden said. “Make a difference in people’s everyday lives.”The United States has administered 92.6 million vaccine doses since Jan. 20, when Mr. Biden took office, according to data released on Monday by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. At the current pace of vaccinations, the country will pass 100 million doses under Mr. Biden before the end of the week.Answering a question from a reporter after the speech, Mr. Biden brushed aside calls for his administration to enlist former President Donald J. Trump’s help in appealing to Republicans who have resisted getting vaccinated.“I discussed it with my team,” Mr. Biden said, “And they say the thing that has more impact than anything Trump would say to the MAGA folks is what the local doctor, what the local preachers, the local people in the community would say. So I urge, I urge all local docs, and ministers, and priests, to talk about why — why it’s important to get that vaccine.”Mr. Biden’s remarks came as his team launched a week of sales pitches for the relief bill. The president and several members of his administration will travel the country to promote the plan that contains direct $1,400-per-person payments to low- and middle-income Americans, new monthly checks for parents and additional relief for the unemployed, among other particulars.Mr. Biden will visit Delaware County, Pa., on Tuesday and will appear with Vice President Kamala Harris on Friday in Atlanta, which helped deliver Democrats the Senate majority that made the stimulus law possible.A group of other administration representatives and officials, including the first lady, Jill Biden, and Ms. Harris’s husband, Doug Emhoff, will also make trips. Ms. Harris and her husband landed in Las Vegas for an event on Monday afternoon, while Dr. Biden finished an event in New Jersey.The road show is an effort to avoid the messaging mistakes of President Barack Obama’s administration, which Democrats now believe failed to continue vocally building support for his $780 billion stimulus act after it passed in 2009. The challenge will be to highlight less obvious provisions, including the largest federal infusion of aid to the poor in generations, a substantial expansion of the child tax credit and increased subsidies for health insurance.Mr. Sperling’s challenge with the rescue plan will be different than the one Mr. Biden faced in 2009, because the relief bill differs starkly from Mr. Obama’s signature stimulus plan. The Biden plan is more than twice as large as Mr. Obama’s. It includes money meant to hasten the end of the pandemic, including billions for vaccine deployment and coronavirus testing. Oversight of the $1.9 trillion relief legislation is currently expected to rely on the Government Accountability Office and the Pandemic Response Accountability Committee, a panel of inspectors general from across the federal government. A Treasury official said that the department would set up a process to monitor the use of funds that are being sent to states to ensure that they are used according to the eligibility requirements in the law.The House tackles Biden’s immigration plans amid an influx of migrants.ImageCredit...Adrees Latif/ReutersDemocrats are preparing to push legislation through the House this week that would create a path to citizenship for millions of undocumented immigrants, posing the first tests to President Biden’s immigration agenda just as an influx of migrants is creating a new challenge at the border.Facing internal divisions and mounting Republican pressure, Democrats plan to take a notably narrow approach for now. Instead of bringing up Mr. Biden’s immigration overhaul, which would legalize most of the 11 million unauthorized immigrants in the United States, the House will start with two measures covering groups regarded as the most sympathetic: people brought to the country as children, known as Dreamers; others granted Temporary Protected Status for humanitarian reasons; and farm workers.But with thousands more migrants, many of them unaccompanied children, showing up at the border daily, even those more modest steps face an increasingly uphill climb. Democrats concede they do not have sufficient Republican support to pass them in the Senate, and G.O.P. leaders, eager to turn Democrats’ difficulties on the issue into a political liability, are using the mounting problems to stoke fear and opposition to any but the most punitive of changes.“Why would you legalize anybody, sending another incentive to keep coming, until you stop the flow?” said Senator Lindsey Graham, Republican of South Carolina and a leader of past bipartisan immigration efforts. “I just don’t see the politics of it — it’s just too out of control.”Top immigration aides to Mr. Biden argue that the bills the House is taking up this week are a starting point for his broader plan, part of a pragmatic “multiple trains” strategy to avoid the pitfalls that have befallen prior administrations.Mr. Biden’s broader legislation would also seek to tighten border security and address the root causes of the migration surge, by allocating funding for scanning technology at the southwestern border and providing aid to bolster the economies of the countries that are the main sources of the influx. But those long-term solutions are bumping up against the urgent need to move thousands of migrant children and teenagers out of border detention facilities.Pressure is building among the most progressive Democrats in Congress, for the administration to move more decisively, as they regard the situation at the border with increasing alarm. Representative Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez, Democrat of New York, said in a recent interview that it took “so much work to get President Biden to a place that immigration advocates felt comfortable calling a positive step.”“To see folks in our caucus try to undo some of that progress,” she said, “I think is really concerning.”Biden administration officials have tried to restart talks with North Korea.ImageCredit...KCNA, via ReutersThe Biden administration has tried to restart discussions with North Korea over the fate of its nuclear program, but its overtures have not been returned, the White House press secretary confirmed on Monday.Jen Psaki, the press secretary, told reporters in an afternoon briefing that “we have reached out” to North Korean officials but have not heard back from them, confirming a Reuters report from the weekend.“We have a series of channels, as we have always had, that we can reach out through,” Ms. Psaki said. “We also are focused on consulting with many former government officials who have been involved in North Korea policy, including from several prior administrations. We have and will continue to engage with our Japanese and South Korean allies, to solicit input, explore fresh approaches. We’ve listened carefully to their ideas.”“Diplomacy is always our goal,” Ms. Psaki said. “Our goal is to reduce the risk of escalation. But to date, we have not received any response.”Mr. Biden took office amid mounting threats of nuclear proliferation around the globe, including in North Korea, which has expanded its arsenal of missiles, some of which could reach the United States.His predecessor, Donald J. Trump, cultivated a personal relationship with the North Korean leader, Kim Jong-un — including becoming the first American president in 70 years of conflict and standoff to meet personally with a North Korean head of state — in an effort to advance disarmament. Those efforts fizzled. North Korea continued to develop new weapons. A North Korean official declared last summer that hopes for peace with South Korea and the United States had “faded away into a dark nightmare.”Mr. Biden discussed the North Korean issue early in February with South Korea’s president, Moon Jae-in, agreeing to “closely coordinate” on the matter, according to a White House readout of the call.Biden chooses a longtime public servant for the Justice Department’s top environmental leadership post.President Biden has chosen a veteran of environmental law to oversee the Justice Department’s enforcement of environmental and hazardous waste regulations, the White House announced on Monday as it begins to fill out the upper echelons of the nation’s top law enforcement agency.Mr. Biden plans to nominate Todd Kim, a longtime public servant, to run the department’s Environment and Natural Resources Division. Mr. Kim worked in the general counsel’s office of the Energy Department during the transition and was an appellate lawyer in the Justice Department’s environmental division for more than seven years in the Clinton and George W. Bush administrations.Mr. Biden has made clear that the environment and enforcement of environmental laws will be a key objective for his administration.He signed an executive order on his first day in office requiring agencies to review policies that might undercut his efforts to fight climate change, ensure access to clean air and water, and “hold polluters accountable, including those who disproportionately harm communities of color and low-income communities.”Two weeks later, the Justice Department’s environmental division withdrew nine policy memos from the Trump administration in an effort to comply with Mr. Biden’s order.If Mr. Kim is confirmed, he will most likely issue new guidance on how the department will enforce environmental laws and take a more aggressive enforcement posture than it did under the previous administration.Voting groups, mounting an effort to kill the filibuster, push Biden to act on voting rights.ImageCredit...Audra Melton for The New York TimesState and national voting-rights advocates are waging the most consequential political struggle over access to the ballot since the civil rights era — and an increasing number of Democrats warn that immediate congressional action is needed to prevent a new era of voter disenfranchisement.A new federal voting bill, which passed in the House this month with only Democratic support, includes a landmark national expansion of voting rights, an end to partisan gerrymandering of congressional districts and new transparency requirements on the flood of dark money financing elections. The measure would override a rash of new state laws from Republican-controlled legislatures.But the campaign to pass the For the People Act, designated Senate Bill 1, increasingly appears to be on a collision course with the filibuster and, in that regard, with the White House.The filibuster rule requires 60 votes for passage of most legislation, meaning that Republicans can block the voting bill and scores of others. The chances of getting to the 51 votes needed to scrap the filibuster are slim, with two moderate Democratic senators, Joe Manchin III of West Virginia and Kyrsten Sinema of Arizona, opposing the idea.But there’s an even bigger roadblock: President Biden is also a no.In Atlanta, the Black Voters Matter Fund and other groups are preparing a national campaign for Senate Bill 1 aimed at both senators and Mr. Biden, who has expressed hope for the bill’s passage but has not actively worked for it.“He’s got to have his Lyndon B. Johnson moment,” said Cliff Albright, the group’s executive director, referring to the former president’s arm-twisting on Capitol Hill for the Voting Rights Act in 1965. “You’re president of the United States. You need to do more than hope that it passes.”Similar initiatives are cropping up around the country. Two left-leaning elections groups, the advocacy arm of End Citizens United and Let America Vote, along with the National Democratic Redistricting Committee, plan this week to announce $30 million to try to capitalize on the momentum around voting rights.“We are at a once-in-a-generation moment,” said Tiffany Muller, president of End Citizens United and Let America Vote.Voting-rights proponents also say they have not given up on stopping restrictive laws in states. Advocates in Georgia, who claim to have slowed or killed some restrictive bills, are aiming at local companies that have supported the bills’ sponsors, including Home Depot, Coca-Cola, Delta Air Lines and UPS.One possible sign of some success: On Sunday, the Georgia Chamber of Commerce, whose members include those companies, expressed “concern and opposition” to restrictive clauses in two Republican bills.The A.F.L.-C.I.O. urges President Biden to ban solar products from Xinjiang.ImageCredit...Gilles Sabrié for The New York TimesThe A.F.L.-C.I.O. is urging the Biden administration to block imports of solar products containing polysilicon from China’s Xinjiang region, citing concerns about widespread violations of worker and human rights.In a letter sent Friday to the secretary of state, Antony J. Blinken, and the national security adviser, Jake Sullivan, the labor group said that the global solar supply chain was deeply embedded in Xinjiang, and that products made with forced labor should not be used to meet the United States’ climate change needs.The push comes ahead of the Biden administration’s first high-level meeting with Chinese counterparts on Thursday in Anchorage, Alaska, in which China’s repression of Uighurs and other Muslim minorities in Xinjiang are expected to be on the agenda.The A.F.L.-C.I.O., an influential federation of 55 labor unions, has long lobbied for tighter restrictions on the import of goods made with forced labor and supported a ban on cotton and textile products from Xinjiang during the Trump administration.The federation began focusing on the solar industry following recent research that showed that polysilicon production in Xinjiang “participates in the same so-called ‘poverty alleviation’ and ‘pairing assistance’ programs that China has used to implement forced labor in the cotton and tomato sectors,” it said. The largest Chinese solar companies also have documented ties to the Xinjiang Production and Construction Corp, a state-owned economic and paramilitary organization that has been sanctioned by the United States for human rights abuses, the federation said.The federation hoped its letter would help “set the tone” for the first engagement with China by the Biden administration, which has promised to take a strong stance on both mitigating climate change and protecting American workers, Cathy Feingold, director of the AFL-CIO’s International Department, said in an interview.“Are they going to indeed walk the walk of their climate- and worker-friendly commitments?” she said. “I think it’s a really important question to be asked.”China has come to dominate the global solar supply chain in the last decade, in large part by offering generous subsidies to domestic solar producers. About 40 percent of the world’s supply of polysilicon, an essential ingredient for silicon-based solar panels and semiconductors, is now produced in the Xinjiang region.As the Biden administration looks to aggressively increase the supply of renewable energy in the United States, progressive groups have begun asking whether fulfilling goals on climate change will come at the expense of human rights.“As national, state and local governments in the United States — and our global allies like the E.U. — invest taxpayer money and act to increase the role of renewable energy in our energy systems, we must all ensure that the renewable energy jobs of the just transition we are fighting for are not based on inputs produced by slave labor,” Richard Trumka, A.F.L.-C.I.O., president, wrote in the letter.The extent of the use of forced labor in the region remains unclear, but because the Chinese government restricts travel and access to the region, many companies have had difficulty verifying that supply chains that run through Xinjiang are free of forced or slave labor.The Chinese government and major Chinese solar companies have denied any presence of forced labor in Xinjiang, saying that all work arrangements are voluntary and accord with Chinese labor law.The Capitol Police will begin scaling back the fencing erected after the Jan. 6 riot.ImageCredit...Anna Moneymaker for The New York TimesThe Capitol Police in the coming days will begin scaling back and in some cases removing fencing erected around the Capitol after the Jan. 6 riot, a Democratic aide familiar with the plans confirmed on Sunday, a visible milestone as Congress tries to return to normal.The agency, working with the architect of the Capitol, will take steps beginning this week to first move an inner perimeter of fencing closer to the Capitol building and remove looped razor wire strung atop it, according to the aide, who spoke anonymously to discuss security plans that were still private. The agency will then proceed to remove altogether a secondary, outer perimeter next week, allowing Independence and Constitution Avenues to reopen to traffic for the first time since January.It was unclear exactly how long the inner perimeter fencing might remain in place, as lawmakers and the law enforcement agency plan a path forward to ensure there is no repeat of the deadly rampage. In an email to House members, Timothy P. Blodgett, the chamber’s acting sergeant-at-arms, wrote on Monday that it would stay in place for at least as long as it takes to make security repairs to the Capitol building.“Working with their federal, state and local intelligence partners, the U.S. Capitol Police (USCP) has informed the sergeant-at-arms (SAA) that ‘there does not exist a known, credible threat against Congress or the Capitol Complex that warrants the temporary security fencing,’” Mr. Blodgett wrote in the memo, a copy of which was obtained by The New York Times.In another change, Washington officials on Monday announced that 16th Street Northwest between H and K streets — renamed “BLM Plaza” for its role in Black Lives Matter protests last summer — would be reopening to two-way vehicular traffic.A plaza in the center of the street with an iconic view of the White House will remain open to pedestrians until a more permanent plan is announced next month, the officials said.Imposing and impenetrable, the fence has become a charged political symbol in the two months since the attack, barring most Americans from the seat of government and causing headaches for the thousands of staff members, journalists and lawmakers who work inside the Capitol. In recent weeks, lawmakers in both parties, wary about the message it sent the country, had been agitating for its removal and a broader reconsideration of the security posture.It has also significantly disrupted the Capitol Hill residential neighborhood adjacent to the historic building, forcing road closures and cutting off access to a spacious plaza frequently used by nearby residents for recreation, commuting or even protesting.National Guard troops who arrived after the attack will continue to patrol the Capitol building and grounds. Their ranks have already been cut roughly in half, to 2,200, but the Pentagon and the Capitol Police have indicated that they might further reduce that number in the weeks ahead.As they curtail some of the fencing, the police are planning to place bike racks outside House office buildings to create another barrier.Gavin Newsom, California’s governor, enlists progressive stars to fight an effort to recall him.ImageCredit...Justin Sullivan/Getty ImagesGov. Gavin Newsom of California has enlisted a roster of progressive powerhouses — including Stacey Abrams, Elizabeth Warren and Bernie Sanders — to fight a recall effort by Republicans enraged by the state’s lockdowns during the coronavirus pandemic.On Monday, allies of Mr. Newsom announced the creation of a new fund-raising arm and website, stoptherepublicanrecall.com, that is allowed to raise virtually unlimited donations under state law. The creation of the group, Democrats said, was a tacit admission that the measure will garner enough signatures to be on the ballot later this year.“I won’t be distracted by this partisan, Republican recall — but I will fight it,” wrote Mr. Newsom in a Twitter post on Monday. Ms. Abrams, Ms. Warren, Mr. Sanders and the state’s new senator, Alex Padilla, joined other national Democrats to throw their support behind Mr. Newsom in a campaign already seen as a cash-attracting dry run for the 2022 midterms.The pro-Newsom messaging has the feel of a test attack. A video that accompanied the launch tied the recall effort to former President Donald J. Trump, QAnon and the mob that attacked the Capitol.“Defeating this cynical, Republican recall effort will be one of the most important priorities for Democrats this year,” said Senator Cory Booker, Democrat of New Jersey, in a testimonial on the new organization’s website.Mr. Newsom, a former mayor of San Francisco elected to run the nation’s biggest state in 2018, has been a target of Mr. Trump and a well-financed coterie of local conservatives, as well as libertarians and independents who think the state’s response to the virus has hurt businesses and impinged on civil liberties.Two committees, RescueCalifornia.org and RecallGavin2020.com, have been collecting the 1.5 million signatures needed to put the recall on the ballot by the deadline of 5 p.m. on Wednesday. Organizers say they already have more than 2 million and would have until April 29 to verify the signatures.Republicans, outnumbered and outgunned in the state, are hoping to capitalize on Mr. Newsom’s recent missteps, especially the revelation that he celebrated a lobbyist’s birthday party at an exclusive restaurant in Napa Valley at a time when he was urging Californians to shutter themselves at home for safety.Recall votes can be unpredictable, but many analysts believe the odds of Mr. Newsom being removed from office are not high: A poll released Monday found that California voters, by a 42-to-38 percent margin, support Mr. Newsom’s bid to remain in office, with many undecided.The Biden administration has directed FEMA to help shelter children at the border.ImageCredit...Jose Luis Gonzalez/ReutersThe Biden administration is directing the Federal Emergency Management Agency to assist in processing an increasing number of children and teenagers who have filled detention facilities at the southwest border, as criticism mounts over the treatment of young migrants.FEMA, which normally provides financial assistance during natural disasters, will help find shelter space and provide “food, water and basic medical care” to thousands of young migrants, Michael Hart, a spokesman for the agency, said in a statement.The administration also asked officials in the Homeland Security Department to volunteer “to help care for and assist unaccompanied minors” who have been held in border jails that are managed by Customs and Border Protection.Previous administrations have also dispatched FEMA to help process migrants during surges in border crossings. However, the Biden administration cannot use disaster aid funding to support the processing of migrants in Texas after they cross the border without the consent of Gov. Greg Abbott, a Republican. States must request the funding from the federal government.A spokeswoman for the governor did not immediately respond to questions about whether he would submit a request.More than 3,700 youths were in Customs and Border Protection facilities this week, more than the roughly 2,600 children and teenagers held in such detention facilities in June 2019. Troy Miller, the acting commissioner of Customs and Border Protection, said last week that 9,457 children, including teenagers, were detained at the border without a parent in February, up from more than 5,800 in January.The Biden administration has so far failed to quickly process the young migrants and transfer them to shelters managed by the Department of Health and Human Services, where they are held until the government matches them with a sponsor. The administration has struggled to expand the capacity of those shelters, where roughly 8,500 migrants were held this week. The Biden administration recently directed the shelters intended to hold the children to return to normal capacity, despite the coronavirus pandemic.“A Border Patrol facility is no place for a child,” Alejandro N. Mayorkas, the homeland security secretary, said in a statement on Saturday. “Our goal is to ensure that unaccompanied children are transferred to H.H.S. as quickly as possible.”Mr. Abbott and other Republicans have characterized the increase in border crossings as a direct result of Mr. Biden’s goal to roll back President Donald J. Trump’s restrictive immigration policies. But Mr. Biden has kept a Trump-era pandemic emergency rule that empowers border agents to rapidly turn away migrants at the border, with the exception of unaccompanied minors.The surge of crossings is adding new pressure in a divisive policy fight that the last three administrations have also confronted.Mr. Biden’s critics have moved quickly in recent days to blame him for the increase in arrivals, which they say threatens the country’s safety, economic recovery and health as the coronavirus pandemic continues to claim thousands of lives.Nicholas Fandos and Chris Cameron contributed reporting.Alex Padilla, California’s first Latino senator, delves into his family’s story in a Times interview.ImageCredit...Pool photo by Al DragoLess than two months into the job, Senator Alex Padilla, Democrat of California, is impatient to take on the kind of major immigration overhaul that has bedeviled Congress for decades.Mr. Padilla, 47, was appointed to the Senate in January to fill the seat vacated when Vice President Kamala Harris was inaugurated, and he was quickly named chairman of the Judiciary Committee’s Immigration Subcommittee, where he plans to push for an expedited pathway to citizenship for the more than five million unauthorized immigrants who are essential workers.The son of Mexican immigrants who had little formal education, Mr. Padilla grew up to graduate from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, became California’s secretary of state and is now the first Latino senator to represent the state with the largest Latino population in the country.Before his first floor speech in the Senate on Monday, he sat down with The New York Times to talk about his vision for the office, what he wants to get done in Congress, and his family’s story. Here’s an excerpt.“My parents came to United States in the late ’60s. They met in Los Angeles. They’re from different regions of Mexico. They found jobs, they found each other, they fell in love, decided to get married, and they applied for green cards. That was the sequence. I thank the U.S. government every day for saying ‘yes’ to their applications.They became legal residents. They started a family in the San Fernando Valley. They came with very limited education. In hindsight, it makes all the sense in the world why they emphasized education so much for my sister, my brother and I. My mom had a chance to finish grade school; my dad wasn’t so lucky. For 40 years, he was a short-order cook. My mom cleaned houses. On that modest income, they raised three of us.When I got the acceptance letter to the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, I had never been east of El Paso. So it was a little scary. But I knew I had to go for two reasons: One, it was the chance of a lifetime. Second, I wanted the fulfillment of my parents’ dreams, to know their work and their struggle and their sacrifice were all worthwhile.In one generation, an immigrant cook and house-cleaner’s son gets to serve in the United States Senate. Talk about the American dream.”The White House is weighing a new approach to cybersecurity after failures to detect attacks.ImageCredit...Tom Williams/CQ-Roll Call, via Getty ImagesThe sophisticated hackings pulled off by Russia and China against a broad array of government and industrial targets in the United States — and the failure of intelligence agencies to detect them — are driving the Biden administration and Congress to rethink how the nation should protect itself from growing cyberthreats.Both hackings exploited the same gaping vulnerability in the existing system: They were launched from inside the United States — on servers run by Amazon, GoDaddy and smaller domestic providers — putting them out of reach of the early warning system run by the National Security Agency.The agency, like the C.I.A. and other American intelligence agencies, is prohibited by law from conducting surveillance inside the United States, to protect the privacy of American citizens.But the F.B.I. and Department of Homeland Security — the two agencies that can legally operate inside the United States — were also blind to what happened, raising additional concerns about the nation’s capacity to defend itself from both rival governments and nonstate attackers like criminal and terrorist groups.In the end, the hackings were detected long after they had begun, not by any government agency but by private computer security firms.The full extent of the damage to American interests from the hackings is not yet clear, but the latest, attributed by Microsoft to China, is now revealing a second vulnerability. As Microsoft releases new “patches” to close the holes in its system, that code is being reverse-engineered by criminal groups and exploited to launch rapid ransomware attacks on corporations, industry executives said. So a race is on between Microsoft’s efforts to seal up systems and criminal efforts to get inside those networks before the patches are applied.“When not one but two cyberhacks have gone undetected by the federal government in such a short period of time, it’s hard to say that we don’t have a problem,” said Representative Mike Gallagher, Republican of Wisconsin and a co-chairman of a congressionally mandated cyberspace commission. “The system is blinking red.”The failures have prompted the White House to begin assessing options for overhauling the nation’s cyberdefenses even as the government investigates the hackings. Some former officials believe the attacks show that Congress needs to give the government additional powers.But the first problem is detecting attacks — and there, the United States has enormous work to do.Democrats believe the relief bill can help them gain seats in the 2022 midterms.ImageCredit...Anna Moneymaker for The New York TimesDemocrats are starting to angle for a political payoff that would defy history: leveraging the passage of the $1.9 trillion coronavirus package to pick up House and Senate seats in the 2022 midterm elections against Republicans, who voted against it en masse.President Biden and other Democrats are preparing a blitz of events to promote the package, which has broad bipartisan support everywhere in the country other than Capitol Hill.“This is absolutely something I will campaign on next year,” said Senator Raphael Warnock of Georgia, who may be the most vulnerable incumbent Senate Democrat on the ballot in 2022.Senator Gary Peters of Michigan, who heads the Democratic Senate campaign arm, said he would go on “offense” against Republicans who opposed the bill and sketched out the attack: “Every Republican said no in a time of need.”Republicans need to gain only one seat in the Senate and five in the House in 2022 to take back control, an expected result in a normal midterm election, but perhaps a trickier one if voters credit Democrats with a strong American rebound.Yet as Democrats prepare to start selling voters on the package, they remain haunted by what happened in 2010, the last time they were in control of the White House and both chambers of Congress and pursued an ambitious agenda: They lost 63 House seats, and the majority, and were unable to fulfill President Barack Obama’s goals on issues including gun control and immigration.It has become an article of faith in the party that Mr. Obama’s presidency was diminished because his two signature accomplishments, the stimulus bill and the Affordable Care Act, were not expansive enough and the pitch to the public on the benefits of both measures was lacking.“We didn’t adequately explain what we had done,” Mr. Biden told House Democrats this month about the 2009 Recovery Act. “Barack was so modest, he didn’t want to take, as he said, a ‘victory lap.’”At the end of last week, with the House’s first extended recess looming at month’s end, Speaker Nancy Pelosi pushed House Democrats to seize the moment. Ms. Pelosi’s office sent an email to colleagues, forwarded to The New York Times, brimming with talking points the speaker hopes they’ll use in town halls and news conferences.For their part, White House officials said they would deploy “the whole of government,” as one aide put it, to market the plan; send cabinet officers on the road; and focus on different components of the bill each day to highlight its expanse.Republicans say the Democratic bet is a foolhardy one, both because of how little of the spending is directly related to the coronavirus pandemic and because of voters’ fleeting attention spans.A year into the pandemic, parents are demanding that schools fully reopen.ImageCredit...John G Mabanglo/EPA, via ShutterstockParents of schoolchildren protested in several cities around the United States over the weekend, frustrated by the off-again-on-again reopening policies in some school districts and blanket closures in others a full year after the pandemic began, despite growing scientific evidence that schools can reopen safely if they follow basic procedures.Several hundred people rallied in downtown Naperville, Ill., on Sunday to urge officials to give students the option of returning to the classroom five days a week. Wielding signs with messages like “Get our kids back in school” and “Flip the school board,” demonstrators chanted, “Five days a week,” The Naperville Sun reported.In San Francisco, hundreds of parents and children marched on Saturday in support of a five-day in-person learning schedule, arguing that a partial reopening falls short, The San Francisco Chronicle reported. Similarly, parents demonstrated at Pan Pacific Park in Los Angeles on Saturday, according to a local news station, saying a tentative agreement with teachers for a partial reopening in April was not enough.Parents pressing for in-person classes say that remote learning leaves students feeling emotionally and socially drained at home.They have the Biden administration on their side. Jill Biden and members of her husband’s administration have been traveling the country in a campaign aimed at reopening schools. And the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention released guidelines last month saying it was safe for schools to reopen if they could ensure measures like proper masking, physical distancing and hygiene were taken. The recommendations called for every elementary school to open in some fashion.In early February, The New York Times surveyed 175 experts — mostly pediatricians focused on public health — who largely agreed that it was safe enough for schools to be open to elementary students for full-time, in-person instruction. Some said that was true even in communities where coronavirus cases were widespread, with proper safety precautions, including adequate ventilation and avoidance of large group activities.— Madeleine Ngo 