 
South Carolina The experience of the past three weeks can only help the South Carolina governor break through into national politics.    South Carolina Gov. Nikki Haley signs a bill into law as former South Carolina governors and officials look on Thursday, July 9, 2015, at the Statehouse in Columbia, S.C. 
Continue to article content COLUMBIA, S.C. — The last Republican governor who took on the Confederate flag in South Carolina lost his job. Nikki Haley may get a promotion.  Haley’s decisive action to drive the final removal of the banner from statehouse grounds quickly and relatively cleanly in the glare of the national spotlight proved a well-timed audition for higher office ahead of the 2016 Republican veepstakes. The fact that the issue at hand aligned perfectly with Haley’s brand — a squeaky-clean, pro-business image that transcends her party’s gender and ethnic liabilities — only helps.  “Nikki showed leadership in this instance, and she represents a new Republican face in the South,” said strategist Steve Schmidt, who managed John McCain’s 2008 presidential bid. “She speaks to the growing diversity of Republican elected officials in executive office, and she’s been a very effective governor in the state of South Carolina, and certainly, she’s going to be a person given serious consideration.”  Haley’s national name recognition remains virtually nonexistent, the positive buzz from the public relations coup may evaporate when the national media moves on, and South Carolina is a general election non-factor. Most importantly, as Schmidt, who was instrumental in McCain’s choice of Sarah Palin as a running mate, points out, “Her knowledge of world affairs and national security remains untested and unknown at this point.”  But the experience of the past three weeks can only help her break through into national politics.  “Nikki Haley, to begin with, is a demographic dream for the Republican ticket. She is a female, she’s an Indian-American, she exhibits diversity in a very unique way in the Republican Party,” said Bruce Haynes, president of the political consulting firm Purple Strategies and an adviser to the Republican National Committee’s 2008 presidential independent expenditure arm.  “But now she has also shown the ability to take what historically in her state was a very difficult issue and lead from the front and win and bring people together on an issue that has historically been extraordinarily divisive,” he said. “So, as attractive as she was before, this only moves her further up the chart with a bullet.”  And while the saga of the flag may have done nothing to repair Haley’s toxic relationship with her state Legislature, it did save her national party the embarrassment of forcing its presidential candidates to answer for the flag in campaign stops here or in a nationally televised debate scheduled in South Carolina in February. “The RNC needs to write her a letter of thanks because they really would have looked stupid,” said House Minority Leader Todd Rutherford, a Democrat who led the push for removing the flag through its final hours.  The road to Haley’s political victory — signed into law on Thursday afternoon at a statehouse ceremony and expected to be realized at 10 a.m. Friday morning when the flag come downs — began on a Wednesday night three weeks ago with the heartbreaking deaths of nine African-American churchgoers, allegedly at the hands of a white gunman, in Charleston.  As news broke that beloved state Sen. Clementa Pinckney was among the dead, and pictures later surfaced of the alleged shooter posing with a Confederate flag license plate and other symbols associated with racism, attention turned to the rebel banner flying outside the statehouse where Pinckney had served.  Haley had dismissed the importance of the issue in a debate last fall, saying, “I have not had one conversation with a single CEO about the Confederate flag.” But on the Friday morning after the shootings, Haley went on CBS and said that following a period of mourning, it would be time to begin a conversation about removing the controversial symbol.  Haley was already receiving reports that both white supremacist and black nationalist groups planned to come to South Carolina to demonstrate over the flag. Over that first weekend, businesses looking to move to the state began voicing reservations. Then the president of the state Chamber of Commerce texted one of Haley’s aides, asking what was going to happen with the flag.  On the morning of Monday, June 22, she announced an afternoon news conference, and word soon leaked that she planned to call for the flag’s removal. She met with state Republican leaders to inform them of her decision. Then she met with state Democratic leaders. She also met with the Republican members of the state’s congressional delegation: Sens. Tim Scott and Lindsey Graham, a presidential candidate, as well as Reps. Mark Sanford and Tom Rice. She met separately, one on one, with Assistant Democratic Leader James Clyburn.  “This flag, while an integral part of our past, does not represent the future of our great state,” Haley said, a multiracial group of South Carolina leaders arrayed behind her.  She said that, if necessary, she would call the Legislature back into session to deal with the flag rather than have it put off until the next session in January. Whether or not she had the power to do so was a matter of contention, as are most matters between her and the Legislature — one House Republican who supported the flag’s removal called her a “cyber-bully” on Thursday for past digs against the chamber she’s posted on social media — but, with the world watching, Haley made an unambiguous call for action.  The last Republican governor to do so, David Beasley in 1996, was rebuked by the state Legislature. At the time three-quarters of Republicans in South Carolina supported its presence. He lost his reelection bid in 1998 as a result of the anger his failed stand engendered among whites.  “I’m the last living casualty of the Civil War,” Beasley said on Thursday.  Soon after, Haley called for the flag to come down, she met to strategize with Beasley and former Democratic Gov. Jim Hodges, who beat Beasley in 1998 and helped broker a 2000 compromise that moved the flag down from the statehouse dome to its (for now) current position next to a Confederate war memorial on the building’s front lawn. Throughout the legislative process, Beasley and Hodges offered general advice and conferred with lawmakers.  On June 26, Haley attended Pinckney’s funeral in Charleston, where she was praised for her leadership on the flag issue before President Barack Obama took the podium for a tour de force eulogy.  The Senate took up the flag debate first and because of the possibility of filibuster — especially from Ted Cruz’s South Carolina co-chair Sen. Lee Bright — the governor’s office expected it to be the more difficult chamber. Haley offered Senate leaders help whipping votes, but they declined.  The Senate proved easier than expected. On Tuesday, they passed a bill calling for the flag and the pole it flies from to come down within 24 hours of it becoming law.  In the House, the outcome was less certain. Even the flag’s most diehard defenders acknowledged it was coming down, but they hoped to stall the process. And the House’s relationship with Haley was even worse than the Senate’s. She had served in the House before becoming governor. Many of Haley’s former colleagues couldn’t stand her.  Later Tuesday, the governor’s office was perturbed to discover that Mike Pitts, a leading flag defender in the House, had filed dozens of amendments, some of which appeared designed solely to bog down the process, including one to fly the American flag upside down on the statehouse dome.  On Wednesday morning, the House Republican caucus met at their usual spot in an office building next to the statehouse and made little progress. After the meeting, the speaker of the House and the majority leader met with Haley and let her know that they did not believe they had the votes to pass an un-amended bill. They also believed that an amendment that would replace the Confederate flag with the state’s flag had a good chance of passage, an outcome Haley considered unacceptable.  When the Republican caucus met again on Wednesday over lunch, she let them know that she would not sign a bill that that replaced the Confederate banner with another. Pitts removed his hearing aids. “No flag, no pole,” she said. She also related a personal story about the sting of intolerance — as a child, when she had visited a business in nearby Cayce with her turbaned father the proprietors had called the police. Several flag defenders were irked enough by Haley’s visit to toughen their resolve against passage of a clean bill.  After dinner, an amendment sponsored by Rep. Rick Quinn, a Republican with strong ties on both sides of the aisle, came up for debate. The amendment directed the keepers of the Confederate Relic Room — where the flag was to be moved — to come up with a plan for its proper display by Jan. 1, came up for debate.  The governor, holed up with her chief of staff and several aides in a conference room downstairs, considered Quinn’s amendment acceptable because it did not interfere with the removal of the flag or the pole. Haley’s legislative aides went up and down the private staircase between the governor’s suite and the House floor to confer with lawmakers. During crucial procedural votes, Haley whipped House members from her conference room, texting, “Please hold. Don’t flip.”  Debate over Quinn’s amendment raged on for hours. Democrats grew angry with what they viewed as an unnecessary delay. At five minutes after midnight, Quinn withdrew his amendment. Then came debate on one final amendment, to replace the rebel banner with the state flag. Just after 1 a.m. it failed and the House sent Haley a clean bill.  Assistant Minority Leader James Smith, a Democrat who had been working closely with Haley, caught her on her way out the door and gave her a hug.  An ebullient Beasley said he was glad to see Haley succeed where he had failed. “It was worth every bit of it. It was worth the price paid 20 years ago.” 
