Donald Trump is an unusual presence on the presidential debate stage. And it's not just because he's a businessman and untested politician who happens to be in the lead. It's also because he's, well, Donald Trump. His rhetorical devices, use of hyperbole, looseness with the facts and bravado simply cannot be compared to any recent presidential hopefuls.The Fix checked in this week with several debate coaches, political communication experts and rhetoric experts to see what they would advise for Trump -- oh, and the other nine men on stage tonight who have to face him.Their responses have been edited for length and clarity.The expertsDavid Birdsell is a the Dean of Baruch College's School of Public Affairs and one of the foremost authorities on the history of presidential debates. He co-authored, "Presidential Debates: The Challenge of Creating An Informed Electorate." He worked with Democrats and as academic debate coach. Then, Birdsell gave up that work for objective research.David Kimel is the head coach of the Yale University Debate Society, the university's debate team. Kimel is a Harvard graduate and two-time winner of that school's Coolidge Debating Prize. He also co-owns a company that produces English-language learning tools for debaters in Asia. We caught up with Kimel via e-mail.Angela D. Minor is an attorney in the Washington area, a Howard University law professor and, for the past five years, she's served as the director of Forensics (a Greek term for speech or debate) at Howard. She's also one of the Howard officials behind those annual debates between Howard and Harvard University.Ben Voth is the director of Forensics and a professor of communication at Southern Methodist University's Meadows School of the Arts. He's also an adviser for the school's George W. Bush Institute, a division of the Bush Center which also includes the presidential library and museum. Voth has helped to train students, political refugees and conservative political candidates for debates.The 2 big questions1. How would you describe Trump's style? BIRDSELL: Trump betrays very little sense of a thought process behind what he does and says. I don’t mean that in the sense that he’s not a smart man. But you see a lot of what we call "flat assertions," and when he does refer to evidence, it’s often information that almost no one else is able to replicate.KIMEL: I personally think that leaving politics aside and approaching Trump from a purely oratorical standpoint, he's a magnetic television personality and a hugely entertaining speaker who is much more fun to watch than the other candidates. Because he speaks his mind unabashedly, is willing to take controversial and offensive stances on the strength of his convictions, and doesn't care about being rude, he gives the impression of being an honest speaker. [All of that] is a welcome relief in a world full of talking points.MINOR: I would characterize Trump's style as dominating -- dominating with soundbites. Now, he doesn’t do that with facts or intricate arguments, but with soundbites and aggression. I think a lot of traditionalists would say what we do know points to a very risky, maybe very colorful style on the debate stage. Right now with Trump a lot of his comments appear to be not vetted, not linked to traditional data and information sources that most candidates tend to rely upon. That is something that seems to appeal to some voters.So, I would be surprised to see him abandon that completely. Then again, he could soften things just to throw his competitors off.VOTH: Trump is a bi-product of an uncivil society. Although, I should be clear and also say: This is not new. We used to shoot each other with pistols at dawn; that was a normal thing to do to resolve a dispute. Now that would be considered insane. But his style -- it’s very extemporaneous and candid and, at many moments, it’s coarse.It's fairly deliberately abrasive and trying to cause some sparks to fly, and I think connecting to a deep cycle of populism the American public has cyclically been drawn into.Ahead of Thursday's Republican presidential primary debate, campaign strategists and journalists in Cleveland discussed Donald Trump's appeal to voters and why he should be taken seriously as a candidate. (Meena Ganesan/Washington Post Live)2. How should other candidates handle The Donald?BIRDSELL: The rules of this debate are such that if you mention someone by name, that person is given 30 seconds to respond. So, tactically, it makes no sense -- no sense at all -- to attack Trump directly. In terms of Trump's weaknesses, he can probably be pressed on policy specifics in ways that show him off to less-than-optimal effect.For example, he's very likely to say something to the effect of, 'What we need is legal immigration, legal immigration, legal immigration.' You can’t go too deep, but in 60 seconds you are probably going to need more than two words. So the candidates need to master the indirect hit. That's things like, 'We can't have a politics where we condemn million of people by association.' Or, 'No one on this stage should feel comfortable unless he can give you a detailed approach to crafting 4 percent GDP growth. I'll tell you what I am going to do: 1,2,3. And anyone who tells you we simply have to make America great is not being honest with you.'KIMEL: [Trump's] main drawback as a political orator -- beyond the obvious fact that he often puts his foot in his mouth -- is that while he's great at agitating others and criticizing policies, he's not the most inspiring speaker. His vanity is his Achilles' heel. If another candidate can make fun of him or stir up topics that might potentially fluster him, he could easily slip into seeming sloppy or petty on camera rather than presidential.But making fun of someone takes wit, and challenging them takes courage, and contemporary political oratory traditionally rewards neither quick-thinking nor spontaneity, so who knows how the debate will turn out. But the danger is that when the other candidates try to do this, they will falter at it and simply turn the entire debate into a circus.MINOR: To contend with Trump, they have to be dominant as well and truly prepared to think in terms of soundbites. I would have them review every single world he has said publicly in the six months leading up to the debate and then fact-check it. The only way that you are going to take control is to bring some facts, some type of truth to the discussion and with that some kind of moral authority and display of fitness for the job.I suspect we are going to hear him talk over others, bleed into their time. I am going to look for a little bit of bark -- maybe even a little bit of bite -- from the other candidates, probably with a professional edge. But I would caution, if you are ready to put up your dukes with Donald Trump, be prepared to sustain that charge.VOTH: Trump has some advantages in being the no-holds-barred speaker and will possibly score what I call some "public resentment" points. We're talking about the viewer who will hear his unconventional way of talking about policy and think, 'Yeah, yeah. That’s what I would have said.' Next to Trump, someone like Rubio, a more traditional candidate and senator, is going to be more boxed in.Of course, all of these people must know that they need to step up and try to stand out and outshine Trump, because he has become this runaway sensation in the polls. So, other candidates would be wise to identify their biggest difference or disagreement with Trump and play that up. The challenge is that they are actually going to have emulate his straight-shooter style a bit while also looking presidential.The Republican presidential candidate is slamming his 2016 competition — Republicans and Democrats, alike. (Julie Percha/The Washington Post)