    With the decision, the FCC is now free to modify its current policy. | Niko Duffy/POLITICO It could be years before we know whether rock stars have the constitutional right to accidentally drop the F-bomb on TV or if a flash of nipple will cost a network millions in fines, thanks to a Supreme Court ruling Thursday that kicks a question about a Federal Communications Commission rule further down the road.  But Capitol Hill is clear what it wants to see now: rules kept in place to protect kids from broadcast content.  “I would remind executives in New York and Hollywood that they should act responsibly when it comes to the entertainment they are sending via the public’s airwaves into family rooms across the country,” Rep. Fred Upton (R-Mich.), chairman of the Energy and Commerce Committee, said in a statement in response to the court’s ruling Thursday.  In FCC vs. Fox Television Stations, the Supreme Court avoided the central question of whether the FCC’s indecency rules policing passing profanity or fleeting glimpses of nudity on the air violate the First Amendment.  Instead, the court ruled 8-0 that the FCC ran afoul of due process by failing to give the networks fair notice that they had broken the rules, letting them off the hook from paying steep fines.  The ruling leaves the FCC “free to modify its current indecency policy in light of its determination of the public interest and applicable legal requirements,” Justice Anthony Kennedy wrote. It also “leaves the courts free to review the current policy or any modified policy,” Kennedy added.  FCC commissioners are rolling up their sleeves after the ruling, but Chairman Julius Genachowski was noncommittal about the panel’s next steps.  In a statement, Genachowski said that the commission is reviewing the decision, “which appears to be narrowly limited to procedural issues related to actions taken a number of years ago.” But he also assured lawmakers the following: “Consistent with vital First Amendment principles, the FCC will carry out Congress’s directive to protect young TV viewers.”  On the Hill, it’s never been politically correct to weigh in to protect the slip of the F-word on an awards show or a bare buttock on a prime-time drama. And Thursday was no exception.  Lawmakers from both parties cheered the continuation of broadcast regulations.  “The decision leaves in place the FCC’s authority to protect children from indecent programming,” Sen. Jay Rockefeller (D-W.Va.), chairman of the commerce committee, said in a statement. “This is a victory for those of us who believe that we must be doing more, not less, to give the FCC and parents all across America the resources they need to protect their children from indecent programming.”  The ruling means Fox and ABC won’t have to worry about FCC fines and sanctions in their cases — and it also signals that the FCC should go back to the drawing board to tweak its policy.  “This is great for the parties, both Fox and ABC; they’re done. The commission sanctions are no more,” said broadcast attorney Jack Goodman. “In terms of the issue of whether the commission can continue to have an indecency policy at all and whether that indecency policy is constitutional as established, [those] are left for another day.”  At issue before the court was a series of court findings sparked by the FCC’s decision to change the indecency rules following rock star Bono’s impromptu utterance during his acceptance speech at the 2003 Golden Globe Awards on NBC. During the broadcast, Bono said, “This is really, really f—ing brilliant.”  Following the Golden Globes, the commission in 2004 decided that broadcasters could be fined for airing a “fleeting expletive.” Since the commission changed its rules, it decided not to fine NBC at the time. The FCC’s ruling was followed by a series of similar slipups by famous stars that prompted the commission to rewrite the rules, eventually deciding that any number of four-letter words and images can garner a fine — even if they are unscripted.  Broadcasting is treated differently than other media because TV and radio stations receive their airwaves for free under the condition that they use them in the public interest, convenience and necessity.  The Supreme Court in the 1978 FCC v. Pacifica Foundation decision — which dealt with a broadcast of the famous George Carlin bit “Filthy Words” — found that the government has a legitimate interest in protecting children from foul language. It has since been narrowed to allow the airing of indecent speech from 10 p.m. to 6 a.m., when children are a negligible part of the audience.  In the Fox case, the court was considering issues involving three TV shows that were combined into two court cases. One of the cases arose from a Fox broadcast of the 2002 Billboard Music Awards when Cher used the F-word and another for a broadcast of the 2003 Billboard Music Awards when Nicole Richie used both the F-word and the S-word.  The other case came against ABC after a 2003 airing of an “NYPD Blue” rerun entitled “Nude Awakening,” in which the FCC decided that a flash of nudity should be treated the same way as language.  The two cases were joined together for consideration by the federal courts. While the commission did not propose a fine for Fox, it hit ABC with a proposed fine of $1.4 million, which was $27,500 for each station that aired the program. That was the maximum fine at the time, but Congress later raised fines for indecency violations to $325,000 per incident per station.  Inside the courtroom Thursday, Kennedy read the opinion from the bench — and even though he avoided using any swearwords, fellow justices had a hard time keeping a straight face.  As he was recounting the history of the cases, including the different celebrity remarks that prompted all this hubbub, Justices Elena Kagan and Samuel Alito — who sat next to him in the courtroom — were talking, and both had smiles on their faces.  Justice Sonia Sotomayor, who recused herself from the case because she sat on the 2nd Circuit Court of Appeals, which had struck down the FCC’s “fleeting expletives” policy, also cracked a smile at one point while Kennedy read from the opinion.  Kennedy emphasized in his reading that the concept of fair notice is a “fundamental principle of due process.” “The FCC gave no such notice,” he said.  He then offered three observations on the opinion. The decision didn’t get at a reconsideration of Pacifica and the George Carlin seven dirty words issues. It doesn’t touch on the constitutionality of the FCC rule. And it leaves the FCC free to modify its policy.  On Thursday, the court skirted the issue of the First Amendment related to the indecency rules but tossed it back to the FCC.  Kennedy, writing for the majority, wrote that Fox and ABC “lacked notice at the time of their broadcasts that the material they were broadcasting could be found actionably indecent under then-existing policies. Given this disposition, it is unnecessary for the court to address the constitutionality of the current indecency policy as expressed in the Golden Globes order and subsequent adjudications.”  “This opinion leaves the commission free to modify its current indecency policy in light of its determination of the public interest and applicable legal requirements,” Kennedy wrote in the majority opinion. “And it leaves the courts free to review the current policy or any modified policy in light of its content and application.”  A Fox Television spokesperson said the network is “pleased” with the ruling, adding that “the FCC failed to comply with the requirement of the Fifth Amendment due process clause by not providing Fox with adequate notice that it could be punished for broadcasting fleeting expletives.”  While the court made its decision in these cases, the most famous indecency case — Janet Jackson’s wardrobe malfunction during the 2004 Super Bowl halftime show — has yet to be decided.  Thursday’s SCOTUS ruling, however, could have implications for that case, Goodman said.  “It was an extremely narrow decision, and it leaves me thinking it may very well apply to the Janet Jackson case that’s knocking around,” he said. “That was even more fleeting than the ABC nudity.”  On the Hill, some Republicans used the ruling to take shots at the FCC.  “The court rightly chided the FCC for freelancing on issues at their whim,” said Sen. Jim DeMint (R-S.C.). “The FCC should stop overregulating — whether television, Internet or wireless service — beyond its clear congressional mandate.”  Darren Samuelsohn, Tony Romm, Eliza Krigman and Brooks Boliek contributed to this report. 
