Credit...Doug Mills/The New York TimesAug. 3, 2015For months, Hillary Rodham Clinton has been telling crowds, the news media, and anyone else who will listen that she “always thought this would be a competitive race.”But she did not, at least until this past weekend, seriously anticipate the competition would include Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. Mr. Biden has not yet announced whether he will join the race for the Democratic Party’s presidential nomination, but reports over the weekend that the 72-year-old former Delaware senator was seriously exploring a bid reignited discussion among Mrs. Clinton’s advisers about what his potential candidacy would mean for the contest ahead.The scenario of a Clinton-Biden matchup brought mixed emotions inside Mrs. Clinton’s Brooklyn campaign headquarters. Many of Mrs. Clinton’s senior staff members previously worked for Mr. Biden and hold him in high regard. They have mourned for the Biden family after his son, Beau Biden, died in May at the age of 46 after a long battle with brain cancer.But Mrs. Clinton’s allies do not hide their annoyance at the implication by Mr. Biden’s advisers and supporters that she is vulnerable, and ripe for a challenge from the vice president.“She has the most money and she is beating every Republican in most of the polls,” Jennifer Palmieri, a spokeswoman for the campaign, told CNN on Sunday. “So you can’t really ask for much more than that.”Ms. Palmieri and others pointed to the many endorsements Mrs. Clinton has already secured and the more than $45 million her campaign raised in the three months since she officially announced her candidacy in April, much of which came from supporters excited about potentially electing the first female president.On Tuesday, the Clinton campaign will introduce its first television advertisements in Iowa and New Hampshire, which the campaign manager, Robby Mook, called “the natural next step” as Mrs. Clinton is “working to earn every vote.”Having Mr. Biden as an opponent could help Mrs. Clinton’s campaign in its efforts to shed the perception of inevitability that hurt her with Iowa caucus-goers in the 2008 contest. Back then, Mrs. Clinton and Mr. Biden sparred on the debate stage before Mr. Biden withdrew from the race after receiving less than 1 percent of the vote in the Iowa caucuses.Going up against Mr. Biden again in the first Democratic debate in October could help Mrs. Clinton hone her skills and appear to be working for the nomination, said Steve Elmendorf, a veteran Democratic strategist. “You’re a better general election candidate if you have competition,” he said. “The vice president would be a formidable opponent.”(Mrs. Clinton has already denounced parts of one of Mr. Biden’s signature pieces of legislation in the Senate, the 1994 Violent Crime Control and Law Enforcement Act, which former President Bill Clinton signed into law.)Friends described Mr. Biden’s relationship with Mrs. Clinton in the Senate as cordial and warm. But his relationship with the Clintons has not been without awkwardness and slights.In December 2011, pollsters working for President Obama’s re-election campaign asked voters in an indirect but obvious way whether they would be more inclined to vote for Mr. Obama if Mrs. Clinton, rather than Mr. Biden, were his running mate.The following year, as Mr. Obama planned his speech for the annual White House Correspondents’ Association Dinner, he made sure to edit out a joke about dropping Mr. Biden from the ticket, concerned the subject would further annoy the vice president.Mr. Obama has been careful not to undermine or wholeheartedly endorse his former secretary of state, Mrs. Clinton, or his vice president. “The president has said that the best political decision he’s ever made in his career has been to ask Joe Biden to run as his vice president,” Eric Schultz, a White House spokesman, said last week.For a while, speculation about Mr. Biden’s plans had subsided as he cared for his son and ceased any discussion of politics. In June, Mr. and Mrs. Clinton attended the funeral Mass of Beau Biden.In what seemed the most telling sign that the vice president may have decided against a run, the Clinton campaign brought on Ron Klain, a close Biden confidant, to help Mrs. Clinton prepare for the Democratic debates.But in June, The Wall Street Journal reported that Beau Biden had encouraged his father to run before he died. And that was followed by a Maureen Dowd column published Saturday by The New York Times reporting that Mr. Biden was holding meetings in his residence, “talking to friends, family and donors about jumping in” to challenge Mrs. Clinton in Iowa and New Hampshire. Those reports heightened speculation about his plans, which he will likely decide on by early September.The possibility of a Biden candidacy has brought renewed focus to one of Mrs. Clinton’s challenges. For all the advantages she has in terms of Democratic support, donations and a seasoned campaign staff, she struggles to connect with voters in an authentic way. “Joyless” was how one prominent Democratic Party official who supports Mrs. Clinton — and would only criticize the campaign without attribution — described her candidacy.Mr. Biden is known for his passionate, unscripted presence on the campaign trail, a trait that endeared him to voters but has also landed him in hot water for his inartful, at times offensive, comments.“Finally Biden may jump in as Hillary slips almost daily,” the conservative media mogul Rupert Murdoch wrote on Twitter. “Biden decent, smart pol but gets in trouble as a motormouth!”