 
Hillary Clinton Emails The Democratic front-runner declines to directly apologize for using a private email account while she was secretary of state.    Democrats still have a clear front-runner in former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton. Continue to article content Hillary Clinton sat down Friday for a rare national television interview, a move that could have allowed her to sail into the holiday weekend, reclaiming a bad week of headlines about the vexing email scandal that has overshadowed her campaign and unsettled even ardent supporters.
It didn't quite work out that way. During the sitdown with MSNBC's Andrea Mitchell -- replete with gauzy lighting -- Clinton mostly made news for refusing to directly apologize for her exclusive use of a private email account and server while she was serving as secretary of state.
“It wasn’t the best choice,” Clinton conceded to Mitchell, who asked multiple times whether she was sorry. Clinton repeated that her “personal email use was fully above board."
Clinton then did utter the word "sorry," but seemed to turn the blame on others for not understanding the ins and outs of the scandal.
“I disagree with the choice that I made,” she explained. “At the end of the day, I am sorry that this has been confusing to people."
That answer is one Clinton repeatedly alludes to on the campaign trail. And, over the course of the 30-minute interview, conducted before a campaign stop in San Juan, Puerto Rico, the Democratic front-runner made it clear that she takes responsibility for her arrangement — but that she does not intend to start presenting a new explanation or response anytime soon.
Instead, Clinton nodded to a hope that her campaign and its donors have been chattering about for weeks: that her Oct. 22 testimony in front of the House Committee investigating Benghazi will let her more effectively move past the email questions.
“I am very confident that by the time this campaign has run its course, people will know that what I’ve been saying is accurate and that I will have a chance to do that before the entire world,” she said of her upcoming Capitol Hill appearance.
Clinton’s backers expect that Republicans will go too far and make the session look like a partisan spectacle, allowing the former secretary of state to gain control of the national conversation in a way that she has been unable to do since launching her campaign in April.
But that may be wishful thinking. Clinton will still likely have to contend with Foggy Bottom’s monthly email release until January — right before the Iowa caucuses, her campaign is constantly fending off questions about her former staffers’ own testimony, and an FBI investigation into whether any sensitive material was mishandled appears to be in early stages.
This week underscored the threat, with Monday delivering headlines that dozens more of Clinton's emails had been deemed classified, as State Department readied its largest release to date of her messages. The end of the week wasn't much better -- longtime Clinton confidant and chief of staff Cheryl Mills went before the committee behind closed doors on Thursday, for example, just hours after news broke that another of Clinton’s one-time aides, Bryan Pagliano, would plead the Fifth and refuse to answer questions when it came time for his own appearance.
It was just another week in the ever-evolving saga of Clinton’s emails.
This constant flow of new developments has underpinned a steep drop in Clinton’s trustworthiness and favorability ratings while she pursues the Democratic nomination, and her campaign's chairman John Podesta conceded to reporters on Thursday that the campaign had faced “headwinds, especially around the email question."
And during Friday's interview — just the candidate’s third nationally televised Q+A — Clinton admitted that she was unhappy with the results of a recent Quinnipiac poll that showed the top word associated with her was “liar," followed by “dishonest.”
“Well it certainly doesn’t make me feel good,” Clinton said.
Nonetheless, she showed no signs of publicly changing course on Friday, even while donors and high-profile backers have publicly and privately questioned the campaign’s response to the questions.
Top campaign officials summoned the team’s highest-level fundraisers to campaign headquarters in Brooklyn on Thursday, largely with the goal of calming any hand-wringing and updating the group on Clinton’s email response plan.
“I feel that I have questions to answer, which I intend to do at every turn with you and others, about the whole email issue,” Clinton told Mitchell. “And to keep saying the same thing."
Political considerations aside, the candidate was also careful to defend the process by which she turned over her emails for scrutiny, insisting that she had been “as transparent as I could,” though she reiterated her common refrain that she wants the State Department to release her emails sooner.
And in response to concerns about whether she inapporpriately shared classified information, Clinton insisted she takes “classified material very, very seriously,” noting that she never sent any material marked classified over her private server.
Anyway, she said, she did not give much thought to setting up that server, in the first place.
“I was not thinking a lot when I got in [to the State Department], there was so much work to be done,” she said. “I didn’t really stop and think [about] what kind of email system there will be."
While the email issue has dominated headlines on the Democratic side of the aisle, Clinton’s conversation with Mitchell also touched on Donald Trump, who is dominating the GOP polls and whose campaign has upended the national political conversation.
Clinton, no fan of the New York billionaire's despite attending his third wedding in 2005, called his candidacy “a bad development for our political system."
“His campaign is all about who he’s against, whether it’s immigrants or women broadcasters, or aides of other candidates,” she said, alluding to his spat with FOX News host Megyn Kelly and his broadsides against Clinton’s close aide, Huma Abedin. “He is the candidate of, you know, being against."
As to the question of her “friend” Vice President Joe Biden’s potential candidacy, Clinton once again declined to speak in depth — though she did use his full name, which she has yet to do for her declared opponents in the race, like Bernie Sanders.
“He has to make a really difficult decision. You can see him struggling with it, and I just wish the best for him and his family,” she said. 