Credit...Maddie McGarvey for The New York TimesSept. 4, 2015MOREHEAD, Ky. — Gay and lesbian couples waded through a throng of protesters and journalists Friday and emerged from the courthouse here as the first in Rowan County to be issued licenses for marriage between people of the same sex.Less than an hour’s drive to the east, the county clerk, Kim Davis, who was ordered jailed on Thursday by a federal judge for defying a court order to issue the licenses, remained determined to stay locked up rather than relent, her lawyer and her husband said. They vowed to continue their efforts to reverse the court order and win her release, and they argued that the licenses being issued by deputies in Ms. Davis’s office were invalid.By the day’s end, eight couples — six of them same-sex — had made their way through the charged crowds outside the courthouse and obtained marriage licenses from the clerk’s office. Ms. Davis had stopped issuing marriage licenses for anyone more than two months ago, after the Supreme Court’s landmark ruling that legalized gay marriage, saying that giving licenses to same-sex couples would violate her Christian beliefs.The first couple to reach the clerk’s office, James Yates, 41, and William Smith, 33, picked their way through reporters and news cameras as a routine paperwork exercise turned into a national spectacle. Their voices barely audible, they stood before Brian Mason, a deputy clerk, answered a few routine questions and exchanged some papers. A cash register rang as they paid a $35.50 fee and collected their change, and Mr. Mason extended his hand and said, “Congratulations.”Mr. Smith and Mr. Yates hugged tightly, and tears filled Mr. Smith’s eyes as he buried his face in his fiancé’s shoulder. They emerged to a roar of cheers and jeers from the protesters on the plaza outside. “I think it shows that equality is everywhere,” Mr. Smith said, adding that he felt elated. They could have gone to another county with a more compliant clerk, but “this is where we live,” he said. “This is where we pay taxes. This is our home.”Another couple, April Miller and Karen Roberts, who were among the plaintiffs in the lawsuit seeking to force Ms. Davis to issue licenses, got one on their fourth attempt.ImageCredit...Maddie McGarvey for The New York Times“We got it!” Ms. Miller said triumphantly, holding the paper over her head. “Now we can breathe.”But the legal wrangling over both the status of Ms. Davis, an elected official, and the validity of the licenses went on. Deputies of Ms. Davis were issuing the marriage licenses without her signature. Mathew Staver, founder and chairman of Liberty Counsel, the conservative legal group representing Ms. Davis, insisted the licenses were void because they were issued under her authority but without her authorization.“They are not worth the paper they’re written on,” he said.Kentucky law says that a marriage license must contain “an authorization statement of the county clerk issuing the license,” which same-sex marriage advocates note is standard language, preprinted on the form. State law does not require a clerk’s signature on the license; to be valid, it must have “the signature of the county clerk or deputy clerk issuing the license.”The Rowan County attorney, Cecil Watkins, has said that licenses issued without Ms. Davis’s assent would be valid, but he could not be reached for comment Friday.ImageCredit...Maddie McGarvey for The New York TimesMs. Davis’s husband, Joe, who was demonstrating outside the courthouse with a sign that read, “Welcome to Sodom and Gomorrah,” said that his wife would remain in the Carter County Detention Center in Grayson “as long as it takes,” but that he was worried for her because she has asthma. When asked if he viewed her as a martyr, Mr. Davis said: “No, I view her as my wife. I love her. I’d do her time for her.”After meeting with Ms. Davis in jail on Friday, her lawyers said they would file a writ of habeas corpus, possibly in state court, to have her released. They noted that she still had pending an appeal of the ruling by a Federal District Court judge, David L. Bunning, ordering her to resume issuing licenses. The Supreme Court on Monday refused to hear her request for a stay of that order while the appeal made its way through the courts. She could win her release by obeying that order, but Mr. Davis and the lawyers said she would not.“Here’s two things I know: She’s not going to resign and she’s not going to violate her conscience,” Mr. Staver said at a news conference. “So, however long that lasts, in terms of the consequences, she is prepared to accept them.”Mr. Staver said that as long as Ms. Davis was the county clerk and the wording of the licenses made it clear that they were issued under the authority of her office, her rights were being violated. He called on Gov. Steven L. Beshear to make an executive order to remove that wording, but the governor’s office has insisted that he has no power to do so.Some politicians have said another possibility is to resolve the standoff by changing the state law governing how licenses are issued. Matt Bevin, the Republican candidate for governor, proposed a license form that couples could obtain online, without a county clerk’s involvement.But the prospects for such changes were unclear. Mr. Beshear, a Democrat who is not running for re-election, has said he does not want to call a special legislative session, so the matter may not be addressed until next year.ImageCredit...Maddie McGarvey for The New York TimesIn the meantime, Ms. Davis, a 49-year-old Democrat who was elected last year, has become a national symbol of religious opposition to gay marriage. Gay-rights advocates have expressed concern that jailing her makes her a more sympathetic figure to religious conservatives, and could prompt lawmakers in Kentucky and elsewhere to push for new laws carving out exemptions for public officials who oppose same-sex marriage.After the Supreme Court ruling, Ms. Davis was among a small number of local officials around the country who refused to grant marriage licenses, including three of Kentucky’s 120 county clerks. She said that giving licenses to same-sex couples would violate her Apostolic Christian faith, and that any attempt to require her to issue them would infringe on her freedom of religion.After local couples sued her, backed by the American Civil Liberties Union, Judge Bunning rejected her argument and ordered her to resume issuing licenses. Both the United States Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit and the Supreme Court refused Ms. Davis’s requests to delay that order from taking effect while she appealed.Judge Bunning summoned her to court on Thursday, and, in tearful testimony, she refused to change her position, and the judge ruled her in contempt. The plaintiffs asked that the contempt penalty be stiff fines, but the judge instead ordered Ms. Davis to jail, saying, “The court cannot condone the willful disobedience of its lawfully issued order.”As the marriage licenses started to be issued on Friday, emotions ran high among the demonstrators. One group yelled “Love won” and shouted support for the couples who arrived, while the other called out Bible verses and “Free Kim.” A supporter of Ms. Davis, Mike Reynolds, wore a vest with a patch for his service in Afghanistan with the Army and a Confederate flag, as well as a hat proclaiming love of Jesus. He said that, while gay people had won a battle, they would be banished to hell “if they don’t repent of their ways before the end.”Ms. Miller, who got her marriage license Friday, said the fight for marriage was about civil rights, adding, “This is one small step for people all over the country who have differences.” 