Americans' paychecks vary by more than just job titles.J. Scott Applewhite/APMillions of American workers for more than a century have welcomed the beginning of September – and the three-day weekend accompanying it – with open arms, ironically enjoying a day off on a holiday known as Labor Day.But not everyone is celebrating. A recent Bloomberg BNA poll found that 41 percent of employers will require at least some of their workers to punch in on Labor Day. About 80 percent of firms with at least 1,000 employees will require some of their staffers to work, while only 29 percent of smaller companies said the same.It's understandable that not all employee vacation plans in the U.S. are created equal. But as America prepares to celebrate a holiday dedicated to the diverse body of workers that help drive the country's economy forward, it's worth taking a step back to look over the labor market's deeply uneven landscape that extends far beyond workers' vacation schedules.Worker pay, for example, is up all over the U.S. Average hourly earnings for private, non-farm workers in August increased 2.2 percent year over year, according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics. But that doesn't mean everybody's 2.2 percent better off now than they were in August 2014.Employees in the utilities sector have had a stellar year in terms of pay, as average hourly earnings ballooned 5.7 percent from last August. Transportation and warehousing workers, on the other hand, have seen their paychecks deflate by 0.3 percent on average over the same period.It's natural for certain industries to outperform others in a given year, so it makes sense that wage gains wouldn't be uniform by industry. Wage growth disparities aren't inherently a bad thing. But it's a little more perplexing when wide wage gaps exist between individuals of certain genders or ethnicities – factors that don't seem to be tied to any economic fundamentals.Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 made it illegal for employers to discriminate against prospective workers based on gender, race or religious preference. But that doesn't mean pay gaps don't exist. An income and poverty report published last year by the U.S. Census Bureau found significant disparities in median household incomes based on race; Asian households brought in $67,065 at the end of 2013, while African-American homes posted $34,598 in annual median income.Median household incomes vary by ethnicity.Source: U.S. Census BureauAnother report from the Economic Policy Institute, drawing in part on Census Bureau data, found that median household incomes for Caucasian male full-time employees hovered around $72,530, significantly higher than African-Americans ($51,610) and Hispanics ($43,240). Female employees' earnings were significantly weaker across the board.The White House estimates women’s earnings sit at about 78 percent of their male counterparts. The Pew Research Center’s estimate is slightly higher, at 84 percent. But it’s important to note that this doesn’t necessarily mean women earn 78 percent (or 84 percent) of what men do for completing the same job. The Tampa Bay Times’ PolitiFact fact-checking system has rated such claims “mostly false.”What is true is that, when the earnings of all women are averaged, they total 78 percent (or 84 percent) of the total average earnings of all male employees. So there’s undoubtedly a gender wage gap present in the U.S., but it’s not necessarily a direct result of workplace discrimination.“It’s an issue you’d like to think has gotten better over time. You would like to think women and men are in the same place in terms of their earnings,” Kate Gallagher Robbins, director of research and policy analysis at the National Women’s Law Center, said in an interview with U.S. News earlier this year. “This particular number, this measure, doesn’t tell the entire story of where women’s earnings might be falling short.”Robbins says child care duties still “disproportionately” fall on women's shoulders. The added responsibility of caring for a child, or at the very least taking maternity leave, can serve as a barrier to career progress and, in some cases, full-time employment. Pew estimates that about 39 percent of mothers have taken "a significant amount of time off from work" to care for a child or family member, while 42 percent said they reduced their hours to address familial responsibilities and 27 percent quit their jobs altogether. And the Bureau of Labor Statistics estimates women spent more than twice as much time caring for and helping children in the household as men did in 2014.“Women who have taken some time out of the workforce to do care-giving maybe are not able to come back at the same level. They’ve missed a couple steps on the career ladder,” Robbins says. “Women’s disproportionate representation in the lower paid jobs, and, conversely, their lack of representation in some of the best-paid jobs, really does feed into the wage gap.”Full-time work more often than not offers greater annual earnings than a part-time job, but a greater percentage of women than men isn't enjoying a standard 40-hour work week. The Labor Department estimates 74 percent of working women were employed full-time in 2013, while 24 percent worked part time. That's compared to 86.9 percent of employed men who work full-time and only 13.1 percent who work part-time.Part-time work is great for students, parents with children and plenty of other people in the labor market, but it’s not everyone’s first choice. The Bureau of Labor Statistics most recently estimated that nearly 4 million U.S. employees are working part time because of slack work or unfavorable business conditions. Another 2.2 million said they could only find part-time work, and 19.4 million were working part time for non-economic reasons, which could include a limited schedule as a result of caring for children.Educational attainment undoubtedly plays a role in workers' respective career paths, but it's important to note that a greater percentage of college graduates are female than male. The Census Bureau estimated last year that nearly 58.3 million U.S. men at least 18 years old had attained at least a bachelor's degree, compared to nearly 63.7 million women who can say the same.Educational attainment can have a drastic impact on a worker's income.Source: Bureau of Labor StatisticsBut a recent CareerBuilder study found that about 83 percent of computer science graduates were male between 2004 and 2013, as were 79 percent of engineering grads and 54 percent of those graduating with a master's or a doctorate in business. Higher-paying positions like these have historically been male-dominated, but national efforts aimed at closing this gender gap are already making progress in opening these programs up to women.“People really think that [the primary reason for the gap] is just a bunch of individual decisions. Women choose to be English majors. Women aren’t choosing to go into computer science,” says Robbins. “In reality, women are in a position where those opportunities might not be welcoming for them. They’re discriminated against as they try to move up the ladder. People I think sometimes don’t want to face the hard facts that we have a lot of work to do as a society in order to make things more equal.”