Credit...Stephen Crowley/The New York TimesSept. 18, 2015WASHINGTON — House Republicans vented their rage against Planned Parenthood on Friday, voting to block all federal financing for the organization, which they accused of profiting from the sale of aborted fetuses for medical research. It was unclear, however, if the vote would mollify conservative lawmakers who have threatened to force a government shutdown over the abortion issue.Neither the Planned Parenthood bill, which passed 241 to 187, nor a second anti-abortion measure approved on Friday has any chance of becoming law because of opposition from Senate Democrats and President Obama. But the deep emotion expressed by Republican lawmakers during debate underscored the challenge facing party leaders in the days ahead.“They say for the purpose of advancing medical research, but we all know that it really — there is no excuse that can possibly be given for the moral bankruptcy of Planned Parenthood,” Representative Jody B. Hice, Republican of Georgia, said in a brief speech. “It’s time to defund this while the investigation occurs.”Democrats said Planned Parenthood provided crucial health care services to women and men and accused Republicans of engaging in baseless attacks on the organization, with the larger aim of trying to limit a woman’s reproductive choice. Republicans in Congress and in several states have begun investigations into Planned Parenthood.“This bill to inflame the passions that is based on false videos, distorted clips, that was part of a coordinated smear campaign all across the country, is being used as a foundation to close the government,” said Representative Kathy Castor, Democrat of Florida. “I hope it doesn’t happen, but it appears that dysfunction in the Republican Congress is going to lead us down that path at the expense of women’s health care.”Many Republicans tried to put the debate in starkly emotive terms — describing the births of grandchildren, the planned adoptions of orphans and ultrasound images of fetuses in the womb.“No matter what party you belong to, we should all agree that taxpayer dollars should not be used for harvesting baby parts for profit,” Representative Tim Walberg of Michigan said. “But the debate today is about more than these barbaric practices. It is about the very character of our nation.”Describing the birth of his granddaughter, Naomi, two weeks ago, Mr. Walberg said, “Holding her in my arms was a vivid reminder that all life is sacred and every child deserves dignity, respect and a chance for a full life.”Some Republicans who have been most vocal in challenging Speaker John A. Boehner — and who have also expressed a greater willingness to force a government shutdown — declined to say how they might proceed.Representative Mark Meadows, Republican of North Carolina, who introduced a resolution challenging Mr. Boehner’s speakership in July, said in a statement Friday that he was not yet prepared to support a so-called clean temporary spending bill that would allow the government to continue operating after Sept. 30 without cutting financing for Planned Parenthood.“I’ve been working with some of my more moderate House Republican colleagues to try to find a meaningful path forward,” Mr. Meadows said.ImageCredit...Zach Gibson/The New York TimesBecause of opposition by Senate Democrats and Mr. Obama, Republican leaders have considered using a procedural tool called budget reconciliation as a way of potentially getting the Planned Parenthood measure through the Senate on a simple majority vote. Normally, all measures need the support of 60 senators to overcome a filibuster.But even the reconciliation process would not necessarily stop a presidential veto, and Republicans do not have the two-thirds majority in each chamber needed for an override.In the Senate, a number of Republicans have acknowledged the futility of forcing a shutdown given the position of Mr. Obama and Senate Democrats. Still, Senator Ted Cruz, Republican of Texas, who is running for president, has been urging colleagues to back legislation that would cut off financing to Planned Parenthood.In a letter to Mr. Cruz, Senator Kelly Ayotte, Republican of New Hampshire, demanded that he provide a strategy for securing the needed votes.“Given the challenges and threats we face at home and abroad, I oppose risking a government shutdown, particularly when it appears there is no chance of achieving a successful result,” Ms. Ayotte wrote. “How do we get 60 votes?” she asked. “And if for some reason there were 60 votes, how do we get 67 votes in the Senate to overcome a presidential veto?”Democrats have warned that with Sept. 30, the end of the fiscal year, fast approaching, Mr. Cruz will soon be in the position to single-handedly force a government shutdown simply by exploiting the Senate’s regular rules on the timing of debate and votes. The Senate majority leader, Mitch McConnell, Republican of Kentucky, has said there will not be a shutdown, but Mr. Cruz has yet to declare his plans.The House Democratic leader, Nancy Pelosi of California, said in an interview on Friday that the Republican outrage against Planned Parenthood was merely an excuse for disrupting the functioning of government.“With technology you could on YouTube kick a basketball 50 yards and get it in the basket and that doesn’t mean you did it,” Ms. Pelosi said. Planned Parenthood, she said, “really is not a reason — it’s an excuse” to shut down the government.Mr. Boehner said Democrats were not acting in good conscience. “Those who would deny the weakest among us the right to life are on the wrong side of history,” he said in a statement.Eric Ferrero, a spokesman for Planned Parenthood, denounced the House vote. “It’s no wonder that solid majorities of the public disapprove of the job Congress is doing and overwhelmingly support Planned Parenthood,” Mr. Ferrero said. “These bills are a callous attempt to insert politics into women’s health.”In a letter to congressional leaders last month, the president of Planned Parenthood of America, Cecile Richards, said the organization was cooperating with investigations but that it “adheres to the highest standards and follows all laws.”Several states have also taken steps to block funds to Planned Parenthood. On Friday, a federal judge granted a request by the organization to order Arkansas to temporarily reinstate its Medicaid contract, which Gov. Asa Hutchinson announced last month he was terminating.