The CandidatesCredit...Mykal Mceldowney/The Greenville News, via Associated PressOct. 2, 2015WASHINGTON — Jeb Bush drew a sharp rebuke from President Obama on Friday after the Republican presidential candidate shrugged off any need for government action in the wake of the massacre of nine people at a community college in Oregon.“Look, stuff happens,” Mr. Bush, the former Republican governor of Florida, said at a campaign event in South Carolina. “There’s always a crisis, and the impulse is always to do something and it’s not always the right thing to do.”Mr. Obama, who in remarks the night before had denounced Congress and the entire American political system for what he called its numbness to repeated gun massacres, responded: “The American people should hear that and make their own judgments based on the fact that every couple of months, we have a mass shooting. They can decide whether they consider that ‘stuff happens.’ ”The exchange between Mr. Obama and Mr. Bush reflected the paralysis that has settled over the issue of new gun control legislation in the United States. Virtually no member of Congress issued a statement after the Oregon shootings arguing for or against new gun control measures, and a number of the 2016 Republican presidential candidates were dismissive of new gun control measures as well. After Mr. Obama failed to get Congress to pass even modest gun control legislation after a 2012 mass shooting in Newtown, Conn., killed 20 schoolchildren, the president has put more energy into legislation where he can find common ground with Republicans.As a result, gun control advocates have for now given up on a nationwide universal background check system or other changes to gun regulations and are instead pushing for tougher gun laws in state legislatures. In the state of Washington, a ballot initiative imposed universal background checks over a recalcitrant legislature. In Oregon, the legislature also passed background checks, which went into effect several months ago.VideotranscripttranscriptObama Discusses Gun RegulationsIn a news conference the day after a gunman killed nine people at an Oregon community college, President Obama discussed the politics that he said were preventing reform of gun laws.naIn a news conference the day after a gunman killed nine people at an Oregon community college, President Obama discussed the politics that he said were preventing reform of gun laws.CreditCredit...Pablo Martinez Monsivais/Associated PressReacting to the Oregon shootings on Friday, Gov. John R. Kasich of Ohio, a Republican presidential candidate, said that “you can strip all the guns away but the people who are going to commit crimes or have problems are always going to have the gun.” Senator Marco Rubio of Florida, another Republican candidate, said there is too much focus “on what people are using to commit violence.”The Democratic presidential candidates sought to offer a sharp contrast. Hillary Rodham Clinton, who has called for a renewed effort to pass universal background checks and other gun measures, posted on Twitter: “What is wrong with us that we can’t stand up to the NRA and the gun lobby and the gun manufacturers they represent?”Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont, another Democratic presidential candidate, said that “we’ve got to do something,” although he added: “I don’t know that anybody knows what the magic solution is.”Bush campaign officials, even before Mr. Obama’s rebuke, insisted that people were unfairly seizing on only part of the candidate’s comments. “It is sad and beyond craven that liberal Democrats, aided and abetted by some in the national media, would dishonestly take Governor Bush’s comments out of context,” said Allie Brandenburger, a campaign spokeswoman.In response to a question about whether more prayer in schools might help reduce tragedies like the shooting in Oregon, Mr. Bush, a former Florida governor, said in entirety:“Yeah it’s a — we’re in a difficult time in our country, and I don’t think more government is necessarily the answer to this. I think we need to reconnect ourselves with everybody else. It’s just, it’s very sad to see. But I resist the notion, I had this challenge as governor, because, look, stuff happens, there’s always a crisis. And the impulse is always to do something, and it’s not necessarily the right thing to do.”Although Mr. Bush did not say explicitly there was no need for new gun control legislation, it was implicit in his message. In comments made before Mr. Obama spoke, he also said he had not made a mistake in his initial comments: “Things happen all the time. Things. Is that better?”Mr. Obama ordered flags at the White House on Friday to half-staff to honor the victims of the shooting.“When Americans are killed in mine disasters, we work to make mines safer,” he said on Thursday night as early reports of the dead and injured in Oregon reached the White House. “When Americans are killed in floods and hurricanes, we make communities safer. When roads are unsafe, we fix them to reduce auto fatalities. We have seatbelt laws because we know it saves lives.”Gun control advocates continued to say they have given up on Congress, which has more pro-gun lawmakers now than at the time of the Newtown massacre.“We almost have to act as if Congress doesn’t exist,” Stephanie Rawlings-Blake, the retiring mayor of Baltimore, said in an interview Friday. “I don’t know if Congress is numb or just has a conviction to inaction on this issue.”Ms. Rawlings-Blake, who will lead a discussion about the gun violence issue at a meeting of the United States Conference of Mayors this weekend, said a national effort to confront the spread of guns would be preferable, because states with lax gun laws affect those with tougher ones.“We have one gun shop in this city,” she said, blaming the surge in violence in Baltimore in part on a flow of guns from outside the borders of Maryland. “We know that the I-95 corridor is responsible for the tracking of illegal guns up and down the East Coast.”John Feinblatt, the president of Everytown for Gun Safety, a group founded in part by the former New York Mayor Michael Bloomberg, compared the push for new gun laws to the successful fight for marriage equality, which progressed first in the states before the Supreme Court legalized same-sex marriage in June.“The arc for success here is just like the arc for marriage equality,” Mr. Feinblatt said. “I think people are actually angry. If Washington chooses to do nothing, the rest of the country is not waiting around.”Polling suggests that the country remains divided on the question of the need for more gun control, even if that tide is slowly shifting in favor of regulation.An August report on guns in the United States by the Pew Research Center found that 50 percent of Americans thought it was more important to control gun ownership, while 47 percent thought protecting the right to own guns should be a priority. Opinions are split deeply along partisan lines, with nearly three-fourths of Democrats favoring gun control and 71 percent of Republicans saying gun rights are most important.The study found, however, that there was broad support for expanding background checks for private gun sales and for legislation preventing the mentally ill from buying guns among people who want gun ownership rights. 