 
Congress A full-court press is on to get him to reconsider his refusal to run for speaker. Will he change his mind?    
Getty Continue to article content It's all about Paul Ryan right now.
House Republicans are frantically lobbying Ryan to run for speaker after House Majority Leader Kevin McCarthy (R-Calif.) abruptly ditched his bid Thursday for speaker, leaving a gaping hole atop the fractious Republican Conference and no obvious successor to John Boehner. The Wisconsin Republican is getting bombarded with calls and one-on-one appeals from GOP lawmakers, urging him to be the party's white knight. Boehner has had multiple conversations with the Ways and Means Committee chairman. Even before he dropped his own bid, McCarthy told Ryan he should do it. And the list goes on: House Republican Conference Chair Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-Wash.) spoke to him about it on the House floor, and Financial Services Chairman Jeb Hensarling (R-Texas) also has pushed Ryan to reconsider.
It's unclear whether the 2012 vice presidential candidate will. Soon after McCarthy's blockbuster decision Thursday, Ryan released a statement that “while I am grateful for the encouragement I’ve received, I will not be a candidate.”
But then the arm-twisting began. When asked later in the day whether he would run for speaker, Ryan said, “I have no comment.”
Amid the pressure, Ryan canceled all of his fundraising activity over the next 48 hours.
GOP lawmakers are scrambling to find a replacement after McCarthy's sudden departure from the speaker's race and Boehner slated to leave Congress at the end of the month. Boehner, who said he will stay on as speaker until a successor is chosen, scheduled a Friday meeting with the Republican conference to figure out how to move forward.
It took no time for Ryan's name to surface, yet again, as the best candidate who could unite the divided conference and shepherd through the divided House must-pass legislation, such as raising the debt ceiling and keeping the government funded.
“He is uniquely gifted and qualified for that position,” South Carolina Rep. Trey Gowdy said, who has also resisted calls to run for a top leadership job. He called Ryan the “smartest kid in the class.” California Republican Devin Nunes also is pressing Ryan to jump in.
“I think Paul Ryan is the only eligible candidate,” Nunes said.
Ryan, 45, said he wasn't interested in being speaker after Boehner's surprise resignation announcement late last month. Ryan cited his desire to spend time with his young family. As the full-court press for Ryan plays out, several other members also are considering bids for the top job. Georgia Republican Lynn Westmoreland and Texas Reps. Mike Conaway and Bill Flores are among the names that have been floated. Reps. Jason Chaffetz (R-Utah) and Daniel Webster (R-Fla.) also are continuing their bids for the speakership.
Some lawmakers have called for a “caretaker” speaker to wield the gavel until after the 2016 election. Retiring Reps. John Kline of Minnesota and Candice Miller of Michigan were among the other lawmakers mentioned as possible interims for the assignment.
But momentum for the “caretaker” idea had already begun to lose steam by late Thursday. Miller, for instance, said she wasn't interested in being interim speaker, and was against having a "caretaker" in the post, anyway. And the reality is any fill-in would face all the same intraparty factionalism that sank Boehner and McCarthy while lacking the ability to cut long-term deals with them or Democrats. To many Republicans, a "caretaker" speaker is the worst possible option.
Not every Republican thinks Ryan is the only lawmaker up for the job.
“I fully respect Paul Ryan’s position that he’s got a young family (and) that he remains committed to them,” Flores said. “We’ve got 246 great folks [in the Republican Conference], and I think there’s somebody in there we’ll find that can be a unifying leader that can advance a bold positive vision.” 