Political MemoCredit...Eric Thayer for The New York TimesDec. 11, 2015Senator Ted Cruz has long cheered Donald J. Trump’s presence in the Republican presidential field, thanking him for focusing national attention on issues like border security.Speaking to donors in New York City on Wednesday, Mr. Cruz suggested a more strategic reason to be grateful: Mr. Trump is bending the race in Mr. Cruz’s direction.“He has framed the central narrative of this primary as, ‘Who will stand up to Washington?’ ” Mr. Cruz, of Texas, said at the private fund-raiser, echoing remarks he has made publicly. “Now if that’s the central narrative, the natural next question is, ‘O.K., who has stood up to Washington?’ ”Mr. Trump, in this view, has taken a machete through the brush for Mr. Cruz, allowing him to rise quietly despite his own reputation for bombast, while Mr. Trump absorbs the scrutiny a front-runner attracts and eventually peters out, as Mr. Cruz has wagered.At the same time, in an election season of intense outsider fervor, Mr. Cruz seems to have found, through Mr. Trump, support for his case that his own government experience — railing against leadership in both parties — should be seen as a genuine asset.ImageCredit...Ian Thomas Jansen-Lonnquist for The New York Times“Let me point out,” he said last month, creating a rare public contrast with his rival, “when it comes to standing up to Washington, I was doing it long before Mr. Trump was running for president.”It is at least partly this belief — that Mr. Trump has made the case for Mr. Cruz without intending to — that seems to explain Mr. Cruz’s conspicuous public deference to Mr. Trump, though avoiding his attacks is surely another consideration.The period of total harmony appears to be over. Mr. Cruz, according to an audio recording from Wednesday’s fund-raiser, said Mr. Trump was facing a “challenging question” about whether he had the judgment to be president.On Friday morning, Mr. Trump took note on Twitter, somewhat gently by his standards. “He will fall like all others,” Mr. Trump said. “Will be easy!”And at a rally in Des Moines, Mr. Trump tweaked Mr. Cruz on a critical local issue, his opposition to subsidies favored by the ethanol industry. “Oil gives him a lot of money,” Mr. Trump said ominously.He also appeared to take a swipe at the senator’s faith. “I do like Ted Cruz, but not a lot of evangelicals come out of Cuba, in all fairness,” he said.Still, asked if he would consider naming Mr. Cruz as his vice president or nominating him to the Supreme Court, Mr. Trump said admiringly that he had “things in mind for Ted,” noting that other candidates had not been as kind to him.Mr. Cruz’s campaign declined to comment on Mr. Trump’s remarks at the rally. On Twitter hours earlier, Mr. Cruz struck a diplomatic tone. “The Establishment’s only hope: Trump & me in a cage match,” he said. “Sorry to disappoint — @realDonaldTrump is terrific. #DealWithIt.”Mr. Cruz and his allies believe that he stands to benefit the most from any collapse by Mr. Trump. According to a New York Times/CBS News poll this week, Mr. Cruz is the preferred second choice of 26 percent of Trump supporters, the most of anyone in the field.Yet for Mr. Cruz, patience is risky. Mr. Cruz’s standing has risen nationally, and he has emerged as a force in Iowa, leading in one recent survey and securing several important endorsements. But he continues to trail Mr. Trump, typically by double-digit margins, in most state and national polls.It is also unclear if Mr. Trump’s supporters, including the many who have limited experience in Republican primaries, will prove transferable if Mr. Trump exits the race.“One of Cruz’s assumptions is that all those voters will stay in the primary electorate,” David Winston, a Republican pollster, said. “We just don’t know if that’s the case.”Edward J. Rollins, a veteran Republican strategist, said Mr. Cruz stood to gain little from confronting Mr. Trump more directly.“Trump’s either going to self-destruct or not pay attention to the details you need to pay attention to,” Mr. Rollins said. With Mr. Trump in the race, he added, “Cruz is not the guy everybody’s attacking.”Mr. Cruz appears confident in what he openly described at the fund-raiser this week as his “bear hug” approach, suggesting that he has given deep thought about how to position himself relative to Mr. Trump and the angry Republican electorate.In a recent interview, he cited his experience “framing the narrative” in law and politics. He said he had long “focused intently on Sun Tzu’s principle that every battle is won before it is fought.”“It is won by choosing the terrain on which the battle is fought,” he said.Mr. Cruz also seems intent on avoiding returning fire at Mr. Trump and aiding a third candidate in the race, a dynamic with some historical precedent. In 2004, sniping between Howard Dean and Richard A. Gephardt helped John Kerry come from behind to win the Iowa Democratic caucus.In the interview, Mr. Cruz indicated that he would be willing to contrast himself with Mr. Trump, if necessary, on policy grounds. He has done so gingerly at times, most notably after Mr. Trump’s call to ban Muslims from entering the United States.Mr. Cruz underscored that his experience taking on the Washington establishment was “markedly different” from anyone else’s in the race. Asked if that included Mr. Trump, Mr. Cruz repeated himself.