    Donald Trump speaks during a campaign rally, Friday, Dec. 11, in Des Moines. | AP Photo Donald Trump didn’t hit back hard at Ted Cruz, but he couldn’t let the Texas senator’s dismissive private comments about his candidacy, which surfaced this week, go by without taking a shot.
Or two. Trump, speaking to a crowd of several hundred people inside an auditorium at the Iowa State Fairgrounds, mocked Cruz, who has been remarkably deferential to Trump. Earlier Friday, Cruz sought to assuage Trump by tweeting that the billionaire mogul is a “great guy” and that the media is trying to spark a fight between them.
“Everything I say he agrees with me, no matter what I say,” Trump said, picking up on television ads from the ethanol lobby attacking Cruz for opposing the industry’s favorite subsidy, the Renewable Fuel Standard. “But with the ethanol, he’s got to come a long way.
The attack was mild compared to some Trump has leveled on other opponents. But a few minutes later, while describing himself as “an evangelical,” Trump alighted on Cruz once again.
“I do like Ted Cruz, but not a lot of evangelicals come out of Cuba, in all fairness,” he said. “It’s true. Not a lot of them come out. But I like him nevertheless.”
The two glancing shots at the Texas senator, now polling ahead of him in Iowa, appeared to be an effort to bait his top rival in the state into engaging more directly as the Feb. 1 caucuses near.
Asserting that the fight for Iowa’s first-in-the-nation caucuses appears to be “a two-man race” between him and Cruz, Trump predicted that he’d win en route to a primary rout.
But Trump, just moments before, took a shot at another rival who appears to be positioned to do well in Iowa.
“Now you have Rubio, nice guy by the way — and he is a nice guy — but you gotta vote,” Trump said, picking up on a well-worn attack against the Florida senator’s spotty voting record in the senate. “When the people put you in a position to be a senator, you gotta vote.”
As he often does, Trump reveled in the latest polling showing him atop the primary field, while dismissing surveys showing him trailing Cruz.
“What the hell is Monmouth?” Trump riffed, clearly aware of Monday’s survey from the university showing Cruz leading him by five points in Iowa. “I only like polls that treat me well.”
Trump referred to the most recent CNN/ORC survey, which showed him leading Cruz by 13 points in Iowa, as a “great poll.”
Trump also pointed out that his controversial proposal to indefinitely suspend immigration by Muslims to the U.S. only boosted his standing in the polls.
“They’ll say, ‘That’s it, it’s over’,” Trump said, mocking the outraged class of political commentators. “And then they come in say, ‘Sir, your poll numbers went up nine points this week’.”
Trump took questions from the crowd, including one, apparently submitted by Phyllis Schafly, about whether he would consider a position for Cruz in his administration or an appointment to the U.S. Supreme Court.
“I really like Ted Cruz a lot," Trump said, mulling the question over. "He’s doing well, I’m doing well. It’s not a contest between the two of us. I would say, we will certainly have things in mind for Ted.” 