Credit...John Locher/Associated PressDec. 21, 2015A woman who drove her car onto a crowded sidewalk on the Las Vegas Strip, killing one person and injuring at least 35, will be charged with murder, but investigators are unsure of her motive, law enforcement officials said Monday.The officials identified the driver as Lakeisha N. Holloway, 24, who the police said intentionally veered a 1996 Oldsmobile sedan, with her 3-year-old daughter in the back seat, into the crowd on Sunday evening. They said they still knew little about her, except that she is from Oregon and apparently had no arrest record.As pedestrians screamed and scrambled to get out of the way, “some jumped up on the car and banged on the windows trying to get her to stop, but she didn’t,” Joseph Lombardo, the Clark County sheriff, said Monday at a news conference. Investigators have viewed surveillance videos, he said, and “the video obviously shows intention.”The person killed was Jessica Valenzuela, 32, of Buckeye, Ariz., the county coroner’s office said. Three people remained in critical condition on Monday, down from six on Sunday night. The sheriff said the injured, whose names had not been released, included people from several states, Canada and Mexico; hospital officials said many of them were from Quebec.Witnesses said the car had run onto the sidewalk, back onto South Las Vegas Boulevard, back to the sidewalk and back to the street again, in an area a few blocks south of the city of Las Vegas. Sheriff Lombardo said it first went onto the sidewalk about 6:30 p.m. in front of Planet Hollywood, where the Miss Universe competition was held later that night, and passed in front of the Paris Las Vegas and Bally’s casinos before turning off the Strip.Ms. Holloway pulled into a hotel parking lot a couple of blocks away, where she told the valet parking attendant that she had just run people over and asked him to call 911, Sheriff Lombardo said. After the police arrived and arrested her, “she was very stoic,” he said. “She didn’t appear to be distressed due to her actions.”She seemed to be on some kind of stimulant, but showed no signs of being under the influence of alcohol, though it will be some time before toxicology test results are available, the sheriff said. She and her daughter, who was taken in by a social services agency, had been in Las Vegas for about a week, sleeping in the car, he said, and might have intended to drive to Dallas, where the girl’s father is said to live.Steven B. Wolfson, the Clark County district attorney, said, “We are going to start off by filing one count of murder with the use of a deadly weapon.” He added that he expected to file more charges later, including “multiple counts of attempted murder with use of a deadly weapon, child neglect” and leaving the scene of an accident.Mr. Wolfson said his office might seek the death penalty in the case.Sheriff Lombardo said repeatedly that Ms. Holloway’s motive was unclear, though he said she had offered an explanation of sorts to officers, “and I’m not comfortable disclosing that.” Investigators had trouble identifying her at first, he said, adding, “We are having difficulty obtaining her background.”“As of now, we do not believe it to be an act of terrorism,” he said.The car is registered to a person in Portland, Ore., whom officials would not identify, but Ms. Holloway told officials that it was hers. Investigators said she and her daughter had been at Planet Hollywood earlier in the day.Justin Cochrane, a property manager from Santa Barbara, Calif., told The Associated Press that he was having dinner at a sidewalk restaurant outside the Paris hotel and across the street from the Bellagio fountains when the crash occurred.The car appeared to be going 30 to 40 miles per hour when it first hit the pedestrians, Mr. Cochrane said.The Las Vegas Strip, a megawatt stretch of Las Vegas Boulevard South, is the heart of the metropolitan area’s tourism industry, lined with most of the region’s biggest, showiest hotels and casinos, and draws millions of visitors each year.Video of the scene posted to social media by reporters on Sunday night, and shared on Twitter by the office of the mayor, showed the boulevard eerily empty but for emergency response vehicles, whose flashing lights mixed with the neon signs of hotels and casinos. The Strip reopened to traffic on Monday.