
For six consecutive years, President Barack Obama used his State of the Union address to call for immigration reform. In three other State of the Union speeches, Obama has called for raising the federal minimum wage. And twice he’s expressed the urgency of campaign finance reform.
State of the Union addresses are often judged by how many times Congress applauded — or jeered, what pundits thought of the rhetoric and who appeared as special guests in the House gallery. POLITICO examined dozens of these plans and promises in advance of his final address Tuesday night and found that Obama won more than he lost — though the most-likely outcome for any idea was somewhere in the middle. The scorecard: 19 clear policy victories, 15 clear-cut losses and 24 ideas that were a draw. Many of Obama’s wins came with the aid of Congress, including extending health coverage to millions of uninsured Americans, opening access to the military for gays and making permanent a college tuition tax credit for families.
But other proposals got no traction at all, also thanks to Congress or because new, more pressing crises or changing interests intervened. Campaign finance reform went nowhere. An effort to double exports by the end of his sixth year in office fell flat. The country’s roads host fewer than half of the 1 million electric cars Obama hoped for by the end of 2015. His pleas for gun control after the Sandy Hook massacre fell on deaf ears.
Much like the Obama presidency itself, the scorecard of the Obama State of the Union proposals reflects major wins, significant setbacks, and many lofty ideas that fell victim to a divided electorate and a dysfunctional Congress.
Immigration reform: Draw
“And we should continue the work of fixing our broken immigration system — to secure our borders and enforce our laws, and ensure that everyone who plays by the rules can contribute to our economy and enrich our nation.” — 2010
“Now, I strongly believe that we should take on, once and for all, the issue of illegal immigration. And I am prepared to work with Republicans and Democrats to protect our borders, enforce our laws, and address the millions of undocumented workers who are now living in the shadows.” — 2011
"I believe as strongly as ever that we should take on illegal immigration. That's why my administration has put more boots on the border than ever before. That's why there are fewer illegal crossings than when I took office. The opponents of action are out of excuses. We should be working on comprehensive immigration reform right now. ... Send me a law that gives them the chance to earn their citizenship. I will sign it right away.” — 2012
“Our economy is stronger when we harness the talents and ingenuity of striving, hopeful immigrants. And right now leaders from the business, labor, law enforcement, faith communities, they all agree that the time has come to pass comprehensive immigration reform. ... we know what needs to be done. … Send me a comprehensive immigration reform bill in the next few months, and I will sign it right away. And America will be better for it.” — 2013
“Finally, if we are serious about economic growth, it is time to heed the call of business leaders, labor leaders, faith leaders and law enforcement — and fix our broken immigration system. ... So let’s get immigration reform done this year.” — 2014
“Yes, passions still fly on immigration, but surely we can all see something of ourselves in the striving young student, and agree that no one benefits when a hardworking mom is snatched from her child, and that it’s possible to shape a law that upholds our tradition as a nation of laws and a nation of immigrants. I’ve talked to Republicans and Democrats about that. That’s something that we can share.” — 2015
Congress made an ambitious, if failed attempt at immigration reform during the 113th Congress, when the Senate passed an Obama-backed overhaul of the immigration system but the House never followed suit. However, the president did establish the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program in 2012, allowing hundreds of thousands of young adults who came to the U.S. illegally, as children, to remain in the country and work legally. An expansion of the program that would protect more than 4 million immigrants here illegally — primarily undocumented parents of U.S. citizen children and green card holders — is on hold indefinitely because of legal challenges. And now the Obama administration has taken on a more aggressive enforcement strategy, targeting children and parents who came here illegally after 2014.
Gays in the military: Win
"This year, I will work with Congress and our military to finally repeal the law that denies gay Americans the right to serve the country they love because of who they are." — 2010 Congress repealed the “don’t ask, don’t tell” law later that year — and since Sept. 20, 2011, gays have served openly in the military.
Guantanamo Bay: Lose
“That is why I have ordered the closing of the detention center at Guantanamo Bay and will seek swift and certain justice for captured terrorists — because living our values doesn’t make us weaker, it makes us safer and it makes us stronger. — 2009
The U.S. military prison at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, is still open, and the president is still working to close it by the end of his term, despite congressional roadblocks.
Gun control: Lose
“Overwhelming majorities of Americans — Americans who believe in the Second Amendment — have come together around common-sense reform, like background checks that will make it harder for criminals to get their hands on a gun. Senators of both parties are working together on tough new laws to prevent anyone from buying guns for resale to criminals. Police chiefs are asking our help to get weapons of war and massive ammunition magazines off our streets, because these police chiefs, they’re tired of seeing their guys and gals being outgunned. Each of these proposals deserves a vote in Congress.” — 2013
Even the emotional pull of the late 2012 massacre at Sandy Hook Elementary School couldn’t save the White House’s effort to push new gun control measures through Congress, led by Vice President Joe Biden. Democrats quickly dropped a bid to renew the assault weapons ban, and a measure imposing near-universal background checks — sponsored by Sens. Joe Manchin (D-W.Va.) and Pat Toomey (R-Pa.) — failed to overcome a filibuster. After each successive mass shooting, Obama has bitterly excoriated Congress for not acting on guns while acknowledging that the political environment makes new legislation impossible. Last week, he announced new executive actions, but the modest new guidelines for existing rules would probably have minimal impact on expanding background checks. Trade promotion authority: Win “And that's why I'm asking both parties to give me trade promotion authority to protect American workers, with strong new trade deals from Asia to Europe that aren't just free, but are also fair. It's the right thing to do.” — 2015
Congress passed the legislation along party lines in June after a bitter fight that pitted most Democrats and labor unions against the majority of Republicans and major business groups. The law gives Obama the authority to submit trade deals to Congress for up-or-down votes, without amendments, queuing up the massive Trans-Pacific Partnership agreement, which the administration wrapped up with the governments of 11 other nations in October, for possible passage sometime this year.
Abusive lending crackdowns: Draw
“And tonight I'm asking my attorney general to create a special unit of federal prosecutors and leading state attorneys general to expand our investigations into the abusive lending and packaging of risky mortgages that led to the housing crisis. This new unit will hold accountable those who broke the law, speed assistance to homeowners and help turn the page on an era of recklessness that hurt so many Americans.” — 2012
The Residential Mortgage-Backed Securities Working Group, formed in 2012, has wrested tens of billions of dollars in settlements from some of the nation’s largest banks, including payouts to homeowners facing foreclosure. But it has faced some criticism from lawmakers and public-interest groups for making few attempts to prosecute the individuals involved in the fraud that caused the housing meltdown.
Climate strategy: Win
"I urge this Congress to get together, pursue a bipartisan, market-based solution to climate change, like the one John McCain and Joe Lieberman worked on together a few years ago. But if Congress won’t act soon to protect future generations, I will." — 2013 Congress didn’t take up Obama’s challenge, but he did, unveiling an ambitious climate strategy in August 2013 that included the creation of the Environmental Protection Agency’s landmark greenhouse gas restrictions for power plants. The administration also helped lead a historic international climate deal reached last month in Paris and is moving ahead with tougher fuel efficiency standards for heavy-duty trucks. The EPA regulations will face scrutiny in the courts, and time will tell how far the U.S. and other major polluters like China and India uphold the Paris agreement, which for the most part is not legally binding.
Iraq: Draw
“As a candidate, I promised that I would end this war, and that is what I am doing as president. We will have all of our combat troops out of Iraq by the end of this August.” — 2010
The rise of the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant has drawn about 3,500 U.S. forces back into Iraq as advisers, trainers and facilitators in the new war against ISIL. The president has also authorized the deployment of about 50 special forces for special missions into Syria.
Net neutrality: Win
“I intend to protect a free and open Internet, extend its reach to every classroom and every community…” — 2015
The Federal Communications Commission adopted Open Internet rules in February 2015 that ban broadband providers from blocking or slowing broadband traffic.
Campaign finance reform: Lose
“Last week, the Supreme Court reversed a century of law that I believe will open the floodgates for special interests, including foreign corporations, to spend without limit in our elections. … I'd urge Democrats and Republicans to pass a bill that helps correct some of these problems.” — 2010
“Let's make sure people who bundle campaign contributions for Congress can't lobby Congress and vice versa, an idea that has bipartisan support, at least outside of Washington.” — 2012 A few months after Obama's 2010 State of the Union, congressional Democrats introduced the DISCLOSE Act, which would have limited political spending by companies with foreign ownership or government contracts and required certain outside groups to reveal their top donors in their ads and online. But Senate Republicans blocked the bill after a significantly altered version passed the House. That’s as far as campaign finance reform legislation has gotten during Obama’s presidency.
Tax reform: Lose
“...Tonight I'm asking Democrats and Republicans to simplify the system, get rid of the loopholes, level the playing field, and use the savings to lower the corporate tax rate for the first time in 25 years without adding to our deficit.” — 2011
While Republicans and Democrats in Congress generally agree that comprehensive tax reform is needed, the effort has failed to get off the ground.
Afghanistan: Draw
“Tonight, I can announce that over the next year, another 34,000 American troops will come home from Afghanistan. This drawdown will continue and by the end of next year, our war in Afghanistan will be over.” — 2013
“Tonight, for the first time since 9/11, our combat mission in Afghanistan is over.” — 2015
Nearly 10,000 U.S. troops remain in Afghanistan to train Afghan security forces and conduct counterterrorism missions. And the top U.S. commander there, Gen. John Campbell, wants to keep as many troops there as long as possible through this year and may seek more. Student loan reform: Win
“To make college more affordable, this bill will finally end the unwarranted taxpayer subsidies that go to banks for student loans. Instead, let's take that money and give families a $10,000 tax credit for four years of college and increase Pell Grants. And let's tell another 1 million students that when they graduate, they will be required to pay only 10 percent of their income on student loans, and all of their debt will be forgiven after 20 years — and forgiven after 10 years if they choose a career in public service, because in the United States of America, no one should go broke because they chose to go to college.” — 2010
Congress cut banks out of federal student loans and poured $36 billion into Pell Grants. The administration eventually made income-based repayment plans available to all Direct Loan borrowers.
Offshore oil and gas production: Draw
"Over the last three years, we’ve opened millions of new acres for oil and gas exploration, and tonight, I’m directing my administration to open more than 75 percent of our potential offshore oil and gas resources." — 2012
The oil industry asserts that Obama’s words actually left out more than 80 percent of potential offshore production, thanks to long-standing prohibitions on drilling in areas such as the eastern Gulf of Mexico and the Atlantic and Pacific coastlines. The Interior Department has proposed opening up additional waters along the southeastern Atlantic and studying their potential oil and gas resources — much to the consternation of green groups — but any actual production there is years away at the earliest.
Wireless access: Win
“Within the next five years, we'll make it possible for businesses to deploy the next generation of high-speed wireless coverage to 98 percent of all Americans. This isn't just about — this isn't about faster Internet or fewer dropped calls. It's about connecting every part of America to the digital age.” — 2011
Now some 99 percent of American households have access to at least one wireless carrier that offers 4G/LTE service, according to CTIA, the wireless industry’s trade group. Much of that had to do with wireless carriers building out networks on airwaves they acquired in a 2008 FCC auction. But in 2010 the Obama administration proposed to make at least 500 megahertz of new spectrum available for wireless networks in 10 years. Federal agencies have been working toward that goal, including an auction of TV airwaves scheduled for later this year.
Voting rights: Draw “Tonight I'm announcing a nonpartisan commission to improve the voting experience in America. … We can fix this, and we will.” — 2013
“Last year, part of the Voting Rights Act was weakened, but conservative Republicans and liberal Democrats are working together to strengthen it. And the bipartisan Commission I appointed, chaired by my campaign lawyer and Gov. Romney's campaign lawyer, came together and have offered reforms so that no one has to wait more than a half-hour to vote. Let's support these efforts.” — 2014
Obama's commission recommended a slate of reforms to make voting easier and more accessible, but those suggestions have been adopted irregularly. A Common Cause report on battleground states before the 2014 elections found that "none of the covered states has fully adopted all of the Commission's recommendations ... However, not a single state has entirely ignored all of the recommendations, either."
Surveillance reform: Win
“That's why, working with this Congress, I will reform our surveillance programs, because the vital work of our intelligence community depends on public confidence, here and abroad, that privacy of ordinary people is not being violated.” — 2014
The USA Freedom Act was enacted in early June 2015. Privacy advocates didn’t love it, but the law curbed the National Security Agency’s mass data collection program by requiring telecom companies, not the government, to store phone call metadata. Those records would only be allowed to be accessed if a special federal court granted permission.
Doubling exports in five years: Lose
“...we need to export more of our goods, because the more products we make and sell to other countries, the more jobs we support right here in America. So tonight we set a new goal: We will double our exports over the next five years, an increase that will support 2 million jobs in America. To help meet this goal, we're launching a National Export Initiative that will help farmers and small businesses increase their exports and reform export controls consistent with national security. — 2010
Obama’s ambitious goal would have required raising exports to more than $3 trillion by the end of 2014. In part because of a slowdown in global economic growth, as well as the European recession that began in 2012, the administration’s efforts fell short at $2.35 trillion.
Small business tax credit: Win
“I'm … proposing a new small business tax credit, one that will go to over 1 million small businesses who hire new workers or raise wages. While we're at it, let's also eliminate all capital gains taxes on small-business investment and provide a tax incentive for all large businesses and all small businesses to invest in new plants and equipment.” — 2010
In 2010, Congress passed legislation that included a tax credit for businesses that hire unemployed workers, eliminated capital gains taxes for small business investors and allowed more generous depreciation for capital investments.
Minimum wage for federal contractors: Win
“I will issue an executive order requiring federal contractors to pay their federally funded employees a fair wage of at least $10.10 an hour — because if you cook our troops’ meals or wash their dishes, you shouldn’t have to live in poverty.” — 2014
In February 2014, the president signed an executive order to raise the minimum wage for federal contractors to $10.10. The Labor Department published a final rule implementing the executive order in October 2014.
Overtime: Win
“We still need to make sure employees get the overtime they’ve earned.” — 2015
The Labor Department is on track to release a final overtime rule by July 2016. The proposed rule would raise to $50,440 the salary under which virtually all employees are guaranteed time and a half pay.
Permanent college tuition tax credit for families: Win
“... families who are struggling to pay tuition costs will receive a $2,500 tax credit for all four years of college.” — 2009 “And this year, I ask Congress to go further, and make permanent our tuition tax credit — worth $10,000 for four years of college. It’s the right thing to do.” — Jan. 25, 2011
A last-minute congressional tax deal in December made the American Opportunity Tax Credit permanent.
Financial crisis responsibility fee: Lose
“I've proposed a fee on the biggest banks. Now, I know Wall Street isn't keen on this idea. But if these firms can afford to hand out big bonuses again, they can afford a modest fee to pay back the taxpayers who rescued them in their time of need.” — 2010
Obama proposed this fee to help recover the net cost of the Troubled Asset Relief Program, the federal government’s effort to stabilize the financial system in the aftermath of the 2008 crisis. He included it in subsequent budget proposals, but it was never imposed.
Expanding early learning: Draw
“So tonight, I propose working with states to make high-quality preschool available to every single child in America. That's something we should be able to do.” — 2013
“I’m going to pull together a coalition of elected officials, business leaders and philanthropists willing to help more kids access the high-quality pre-K they need.” — 2014.
Obama’s sweeping proposal to expand preschool in the states fell flat with nearly all Republicans on Capitol Hill. But he has seen more modest gains in early education and did bring together a coalition to help expand pre-kindergarten in the states.
Patent reform: Lose
“And let's pass a patent reform bill that allows our businesses to stay focused on innovation, not costly and needless litigation.” — 2014
Congress has been debating patent reform legislation designed to curb lawsuits from so-called patent trolls, who acquire patents in order to sue other companies for infringement, for several years. But lawmakers still haven’t agreed on what to do. Green electricity: Win
"Thanks to our recovery plan, we will double this nation’s supply of renewable energy in the next three years." — 2009
Specifically, Obama's goal was to double the nation’s installed solar, wind and geothermal capacity to 57.6 gigawatts by the end of 2011. The U.S. technically fell just short of his goal, reaching just 54.9 gigawatts during that period. But projects already under way continued to send those totals soaring. By the end of 2012, wind and solar capacity alone had a total of roughly 68 total gigawatts installed.
Trade deals with South Korea, Panama and Colombia: Win
“And that's why we'll continue to shape a Doha trade agreement that opens global markets and why we will strengthen our trade relations in Asia and with key partners like South Korea and Panama and Colombia.” — 2010
Obama reopened trade negotiations with South Korea, Panama and Colombia, which began under George W. Bush’s administration, during his first term as part of his effort to reenergize the sluggish economy. The updated trade deals included stronger labor, environmental and human rights protections and gained congressional approval largely along partisan lines in late 2011, with most Republicans and some centrist Democrats in support.
Ending tax breaks for companies that move jobs abroad: Lose
“…[I]t is time to finally slash the tax breaks for companies that ship our jobs overseas and give those tax breaks to companies that create jobs right here in the United States of America.” — 2010
Democrats proposed legislation in 2010 and 2012 to eliminate the standard deduction for moving expenses for businesses relocating to other countries. Companies that brought jobs back to America would have gotten a 20 percent tax credit for their expenses. Both efforts failed.
Innovation in education: Draw
“We’ll invest in innovative programs that are already helping schools meet high standards and close achievement gaps. And we will expand our commitment to charter schools.” — 2009
“Now, this year, we've broken through the stalemate between left and right by launching a national competition to improve our schools. And the idea here is simple: Instead of rewarding failure, we only reward success. Instead of funding the status quo, we only invest in reform.” — 2010 The administration poured more than $12 billion into competitive grant programs like Race to the Top and the School Improvement Grant program, which promoted the expansion of charter schools when traditional public schools were failing. The administration has said the programs pushed states and schools to make important changes, while experts says results are uneven.
‘Buffett Rule’: Lose
“Tax reform should follow the Buffett rule. If you make more than a million dollars a year, you should not pay less than 30 percent in taxes.” — 2012
Democrats latched on to the idea after billionaire investor Warren Buffett decried the fact that wealthy people like him pay less in taxes as a portion of their income than lower-earning taxpayers. While legislation to implement the Buffett Rule was introduced, it failed to pass.
International tax reform for highway funding: Lose
“Both Democrats and Republicans have argued that our Tax Code is riddled with wasteful, complicated loopholes that punish businesses investing here and reward companies that keep profits abroad. … Let's work together to close those loopholes, end those incentives to ship jobs overseas, and lower tax rates for businesses that create jobs right here at home. Moreover, we can take the money we save from this transition to tax reform to create jobs rebuilding our roads, upgrading our ports, unclogging our commutes.” — 2014
Congress made a stab at using international tax reform to fund an extension of the Highway Trust Fund, but while top House tax writers were in favor of the move, Senate leaders rejected the idea.
Linking value to federal financial aid: Draw
“I ask Congress to change the Higher Education Act so that affordability and value are included in determining which colleges receive certain types of federal aid. And tomorrow, my administration will release a new ‘College Scorecard’ that parents and students can use to compare schools based on a simple criteria — where you can get the most bang for your educational buck.” — 2013
Congress has not reauthorized the Higher Education Act or agreed to tie federal aid to college performance. But the administration did create and later expand the College Scorecard to make it easier for families to compare schools on measures like former students’ earnings.
High speed rail: Lose
“Within 25 years, our goal is to give 80 percent of Americans access to high-speed rail. This could allow you to go places in half the time it takes to travel by car. For some trips, it will be faster than flying — without the pat-down. As we speak, routes in California and the Midwest are already underway.” — 2011
Still drafting off the 2009 economic stimulus, Obama used this speech to sketch a blue sky dream for the $8 billion that the package had provided for high-speed and intercity passenger rail, calling it a down payment on the steps needed to connect the vast majority of Americans to a high-speed rail network. But that money was mostly used to upgrade existing lines, and only a portion of them meet even the United States’ anemic definition of “high speed.” Though it’s been far from 25 years since his speech, building a U.S. high-speed rail network would take vastly more than $8 billion, which would require the cooperation of Congress.
Equal pay for women: Draw
“We're going to crack down on violations of equal pay laws — so that women get equal pay for an equal day's work.” — 2010 “And I ask this Congress to declare that women should earn a living equal to their efforts, and finally pass the Paycheck Fairness Act this year.” — 2013
“That’s why this Congress still needs to pass a law that makes sure a woman is paid the same as a man for doing the same work. It’s 2015. It’s time.” — 2015
Although Congress has not passed the Paycheck Fairness Act, which would require employers to demonstrate that pay disparity between men and women is based on job performance and would prohibit employer retaliation for sharing salary information with co-workers, Obama issued a 2014 executive order that prohibits federal contractors from retaliating against employees who discuss their compensation — a step intended to help close the gender wage gap. The Office of Federal Contract Compliance Programs issued a final rule in September implementing the executive order. The rule is now in effect.
More college graduates: Lose “By 2020, America will once again have the highest proportion of college graduates in the world.” — 2009
Recent research shows that college completion rates are declining.
Asia-Pacific and European Union trade deals: Draw
“To boost American exports, support American jobs and level the playing field in the growing markets of Asia, we intend to complete negotiations on a Trans-Pacific Partnership. And tonight I'm announcing that we will launch talks on a comprehensive transatlantic trade and investment partnership with the European Union, because trade that is fair and free across the Atlantic supports millions of good-paying American jobs.” — 2013
The administration completed negotiations on the Trans-Pacific Partnership, which would lower trade barriers among 12 nations, but it’s not clear the president can convince congressional Republicans to approve the deal because of disagreements over patent protections for biologic drugs and a tobacco provision, among other issues. The administration is trying to conclude an even bigger deal with the European Union but the pace of talks have been slow. Even if a deal is struck, it would be up to the next president to win congressional approval. More training, apprenticeships for workers: Win
I’m also asking more businesses to follow the lead of companies like CVS and UPS, and offer more educational benefits and paid apprenticeships — opportunities that give workers the chance to earn higher-paying jobs even if they don’t have a higher education. — 2015
Obama launched the TechHire initiative, which got companies and communities to offer training, such as coding boot camps, to low-income workers and minorities. And the administration launched a $100 million grant competition for innovative training programs. Mortgage refinancing: Draw “We have launched a housing plan that will help responsible families facing the threat of foreclosure lower their monthly payments and refinance their mortgages. … In fact, the average family who refinances today can save nearly $2,000 per year on their mortgage.” — 2009
“I'm sending this Congress a plan that gives every responsible homeowner the chance to save about $3,000 a year on their mortgage by refinancing at historically low rates.… A small fee on the largest financial institutions will ensure that it won't add to the deficit and will give those banks that were rescued by taxpayers a chance to repay a deficit of trust.” — 2012
“Right now there's a bill in this Congress that would give every responsible homeowner in America the chance to save $3,000 a year by refinancing at today's rates. Democrats and Republicans have supported it before, so what are we waiting for?” — 2013
More than 3 million borrowers have refinanced their mortgages and obtained lower interest rates using the Home Affordable Refinance Program since it began 2009. But only homeowners whose loans are backed by government-owned Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac are eligible for the program, which expires at the end of 2016. Though Obama exhorted lawmakers two years in a row to extend the program to all mortgages, his plan for a fee on banks to pay for it went nowhere in Congress.
Energy Security Trust: Lose
"In fact, much of our new-found energy is drawn from lands and waters that we, the public, own together. So tonight, I propose we use some of our oil and gas revenues to fund an Energy Security Trust that will drive new research and technology to shift our cars and trucks off oil for good." — 2013 Obama's idea to funnel $2 billion in offshore drilling revenue to pay for research into alternative fuel and vehicles never gained traction in either party on Capitol Hill and faded fast.
Small Business Lending Fund: Draw
“I'm proposing that we take $30 billion of the money Wall Street banks have repaid and use it to help community banks give small businesses the credit they need to stay afloat.” — 2010
The Small Business Lending Fund was established in 2011, but it gave out only about $4 billion to community banks, not the $30 billion Obama originally envisioned. Banks participating in the program had increased their small-business lending by $17.2 billion by June 2015. Better Internet in schools: Draw
“Last year, I also pledged to connect 99 percent of our students to high-speed broadband over the next four years. Tonight I can announce that with the support of the FCC and companies like Apple, Microsoft, Sprint and Verizon, we've got a down payment to start connecting more than 15,000 schools and 20 million students over the next two years, without adding a dime to the deficit.” — 2014 The White House said last year that the private sector has pledged $2 billion in tech goods and services. The FCC chipped in an additional $2 billion in funding in 2014 for school Wi-Fi and increased the amount that can be spent to help subsidize school Internet service, which it says will meet schools' needs within the next few years. But two years away from the president’s self-imposed deadline, a majority of school districts nationally still report that their Internet access isn’t sufficient. More than two-thirds of school systems surveyed in a 2015 report said they didn’t have enough Internet bandwidth to keep up with student demand today or the next 18 months.
Speeding up transportation projects: Win
“In the next few weeks, I will sign an executive order clearing away the red tape that slows down too many construction projects.” — 2012
“But I will act on my own to slash bureaucracy and streamline the permitting process for key projects, so we can get more construction workers on the job as fast as possible.”— 2014 Obama took several executive actions aimed at streamlining the federal approval process for transportation projects. Congress acted as well, using two major transportation bills to consolidate programs and streamline reviews for infrastructure projects.
Earned-income tax credit expansion: Draw
“There are other steps we can take to help families make ends meet, and few are more effective at reducing inequality and helping families pull themselves up through hard work than the earned-income tax credit. … I agree with Republicans like Sen. Rubio that it doesn't do enough for single workers who don't have kids. So let's work together to strengthen the credit, reward work, help more Americans get ahead.” — 2014
Democrats won a major expansion of the EITC as part of last month’s tax package. The idea of extending the credit to more single workers without children has strong support among Democrats and some Republicans, including House Speaker Paul Ryan. But while legislation has been introduced to expand the EITC for single workers without children, it has not advanced.
High school innovation contest: Win
“Tonight, I’m announcing a new challenge to redesign America’s high schools so they better equip graduates for the demands of a high-tech economy.” — 2013
Using $100 million in fees from H1B visas, the administration selected 24 grantees that are now redesigning their high schools to add rigorous career and technical programs. Electric vehicles: Lose
"With more research and incentives, we can … become the first country to have a million electric vehicles on the road by 2015." — 2011
By 2013, administration officials had already started backing away from the goal Obama declared for U.S. consumers to purchase electric plug-in vehicles. In the past five years, automakers have sold just more than 400,000 of those vehicles in the United States, according to the latest figures compiled by the publication Inside EVs. At the pace set in the past two years, it would take another four to five years to bring the cumulative sales to more than 1 million.
Federal minimum wage: Draw
“Tonight, let’s declare that in the wealthiest nation on Earth, no one who works full-time should have to live in poverty, and raise the federal minimum wage to $9.00 an hour.” — 2013 “Today, the federal minimum wage is worth about 20 percent less than it was when Ronald Reagan first stood here. Tom Harkin and George Miller have a bill to fix that by lifting the minimum wage to $10.10.” — 2014
“And to everyone in this Congress who still refuses to raise the minimum wage, I say this: If you truly believe you could work full-time and support a family on less than $15,000 a year, try it. If not, vote to give millions of the hardest-working people in America a raise.” — 2015
Congress has not raised the minimum wage in spite of a $10.10 proposal from Sen. Tom Harkin and Rep. George Miller in 2013, a $12 proposal from Sen. Patty Murray and Rep. Bobby Scott in 2015, and a $15 proposal from Sen. Bernie Sanders, also in 2015. However, 29 states and the District of Columbia have taken matters into their own hands, increasing minimum wages above the federal rate of $7.25. Free community college: Draw
“I’m sending this Congress a bold new plan to lower the cost of community college — to zero.” — 2015 Free community college was dead on arrival in Congress. But Oregon passed a free community college bill, Minnesota launched a pilot program, and several other states considered legislation. ‘Fix it First’: Lose
“So tonight, I propose a ‘Fix-It-First’ program to put people to work as soon as possible on our most urgent repairs, like the nearly 70,000 structurally deficient bridges across the country. And to make sure taxpayers don’t shoulder the whole burden, I’m also proposing a Partnership to Rebuild America that attracts private capital to upgrade what our businesses need most: modern ports to move our goods, modern pipelines to withstand a storm, modern schools worthy of our children.” — 2013 Obama’s proposed $50 billion “Fix-It-First” package was supposed to be something like the stimulus that would have included $40 billion for deferred maintenance on bridges, highways, transit systems and airports, drawn from a “front loaded” first year of a transportation bill. But lawmakers never went along with anything close to that — even when they passed a $305 billion, five-year transportation bill at the end of 2015.
Obama’s “Partnership to Rebuild America” was essentially a wish list, including proposals for an infrastructure bank (not enacted), “America Fast Forward Bonds” (not enacted), and $4 billion for transportation-related grant and loan programs (funded, but at much lower levels than the administration proposed).
Paid leave: Draw
“Send me a bill that gives every worker in America the opportunity to earn seven days of paid sick leave. It’s the right thing to do.” — 2015
Congress still has not passed the Family and Medical Insurance Leave Act, to set up a national paid family and medical leave insurance program, or the Healthy Families Act, which would give workers in businesses with at least 15 employees up to seven days of annual paid sick leave. Members of the administration, including Labor Secretary Tom Perez and senior White House adviser Valerie Jarrett, have met with employers and state and local officials to promote paid leave policies. The Labor Department’s Women’s Bureau has also awarded grants to support research into the feasibility of paid leave programs at the state and local level.
Expand opportunities for young men of color: Win
“And I’m reaching out to some of America’s leading foundations and corporations on a new initiative to help more young men of color facing tough odds stay on track and reach their full potential." — 2014
Obama soon launched the legacy-building My Brother’s Keeper initiative, which is focused on increasing opportunities for boys and young men of color. The administration secured hundreds of millions of dollars of outside support for the effort from foundations and corporations.
Auto IRA: Draw
“And if this Congress wants to help, work with me to fix an upside-down tax code that gives big tax breaks to help the wealthy save, but does little to nothing for middle-class Americans. Offer every American access to an automatic IRA on the job, so they can save at work just like everyone in this chamber can.” — 2014 Congress has not passed any legislation that establishes a federal auto-IRA program, but states including New Jersey and Connecticut are looking into this option. So far, Illinois and Oregon are the only states with their own auto-IRA programs. In November, the Labor Department proposed a rule intended to encourage these state-based programs by clarifying when they are exempt from coverage under the Employee Retirement Income Security Act.
MyRA: Win
“I will direct the Treasury to create a new way for working Americans to start their own retirement savings: MyRA. It’s a new savings bond that encourages folks to build a nest egg. MyRA guarantees a decent return with no risk of losing what you put in.” — 2014
The Treasury Department made myRA accounts nationally available in November 2015. The myRA accounts provide employees who do not have access to a retirement account at work with a savings option. MyRA accounts have no fees and invest only in government savings bonds.
Ending Bush-era tax breaks for wealthy: Draw
“In order to save our children from a future of debt, we will also end the tax breaks for the wealthiest 2 percent of Americans.” — 2009
In the 2013 fiscal cliff deal, Congress allowed tax breaks to lapse for the wealthiest 1 percent of taxpayers — couples earning above $450,000 and individuals earning above $400,000.
Cybersecurity: Draw
“Earlier today, I signed a new executive order that will strengthen our cyber defenses by increasing information sharing, and developing standards to protect our national security, our jobs and our privacy.” — 2013
“I urge this Congress to finally pass the legislation we need to better meet the evolving threat of cyberattacks, combat identity theft and protect our children’s information. That should be a bipartisan effort.” — 2015 The 2013 executive order created a voluntary process to help companies share information about cybersecurity threats with the government and each other, and Congress passed legislation last month that significantly lowers the legal barriers for companies to participate. But only about one-quarter of the cyber experts questioned by POLITICO said they believe the legislation will reduce breaches. None of these efforts has prevented a slew of damaging cyberattacks on both major companies and the government, including the thefts of sensitive federal personnel records on more than 22 million people.
Infrastructure stimulus: Draw
“Over the next two years, this plan will save or create 3.5 million jobs. More than 90 percent of these jobs will be in the private sector — jobs rebuilding our roads and bridges; constructing wind turbines and solar panels; laying broadband and expanding mass transit.” — 2009
Obama’s $787 billion economic stimulus package was sold as a jobs-boosting infrastructure plan, but its spending on transportation was relatively meager: Only about $64 billion went to roads, bridges, rail, transit and aviation. Despite the administration’s priority on “shovel-ready” projects, the money was slow to roll out, wasn’t nearly enough to cover nationwide maintenance backlogs, and opened the administration to criticism about whether the money has been well-spent.
Use federal law to expand education reform: Draw
“When we renew the Elementary and Secondary Education Act, we will work with Congress to expand [reforms] to all 50 states. Still, in this economy, a high school diploma no longer guarantees a good job. That's why I urge the Senate to follow the House and pass a bill that will revitalize our community colleges, which are a career pathway to the children of so many working families.” — 2010 Reauthorization of the law, which didn’t happen for five more years, gives states flexibility to rethink many Obama-era reforms. The administration did push reforms however, through its waivers from the No Child Left Behind law. And a 2010 law gave community colleges $2 billion for job training. Change high school dropout rules: Draw
“When students are not allowed to drop out, they do better. So tonight, I am proposing that every state — every state — requires that all students stay in high school until they graduate or turn 18.” — 2012
Three states have raised the upper age limit on compulsory schooling since 2013, and about half of all states require students to attend school until they are 18.
Obamacare: Win
“But I also know that nearly a century after Teddy Roosevelt first called for reform, the cost of our health care has weighed down our economy and the conscience of our nation long enough. So let there be no doubt: health care reform cannot wait, it must not wait, and it will not wait another year.” —2009
“Don’t walk away from reform. Not now. Not when we are so close. Let us find a way to come together and finish the job for the American people. Let’s get it done.” — 2010
After 14 months of debate, a Democratic-controlled Congress passed the Affordable Care Act in March 2010 without the support of a single Republican. The Supreme Court upheld the law in 2012 but made the expansion of Medicaid optional for states. The law has extended coverage to roughly 17.6 million Americans and survived countless political and legal attacks. Obama has accomplished much of what he hoped to achieve on health care but at a high political price. The nonstop controversy has made it hard for his administration to address the law’s problems.
Clea Benson, Scott Bland, Marcella Bombardieri, Nancy Cook, Matt Daily, Toby Eckert, Caitlin Emma, Darren Goode, Kimberly Hefling, Bob Hillman, Jason Huffman, Seung-Min Kim, Matthew Korade, Marianne LeVine, Joe Marks, Amy Schatz, Maggie Severns, Sarah Wheaton and Kathryn A. Wolfe contributed to this report. 