Credit...Nicholas Kamm/Agence France-Presse — Getty ImagesJuly 10, 2012WASHINGTON — As President Obama and Mitt Romney rush to define the other, each man is alleging one of the great economic sins: that his rival accelerated the exodus of American jobs to foreign countries.Mr. Obama accuses Mr. Romney of being at the helm of a firm that invested in companies that outsourced their jobs. Mr. Romney, in remarks on Tuesday, called Mr. Obama the real “outsourcer in chief” for sending billions of dollars in stimulus funds to foreign-based firms and companies that “end up making their products outside the United States.”The particulars have been denied or defended by both sides, and in many cases picked over by independent fact-checkers. In response, the two candidates and their allies have all but stuck their fingers in their ears while continuing with their outsourcing attacks.There is no question of the potential power of the narrative, coming at a time of economic uncertainty and frustration about the tepid expansion of the labor force. But in both cases, there are deep questions about the fundamental truth of the arguments, even as each campaign continues to press forward with its charges. Mr. Obama’s attacks on Mr. Romney’s time at Bain Capital rely on thinly documented examples of outsourcing that took place when the Republican candidate was, at best, an absentee owner of his firm, having left day-to-day management to run the 2002 Winter Olympics in Salt Lake City.And Mr. Romney’s latest attacks on the president’s stimulus spending appear to be based primarily on snippets of news reports about the activities of companies that — upon contacting the companies themselves — do not bear out as fact.The “You’re an outsourcer! No, you are!” debate threatens to consume much of the summer as both campaigns battle their way across a dozen battleground states in a race that polls show to be tied.The Republican National Committee on Tuesday morning unveiled a Web site alleging that under President Obama, the American Recovery Act, known as the stimulus, sent billions of dollars to companies operating overseas. In fact, several of the companies cited on the new site said the Republican characterizations of their activities were far from accurate. According to the Republican committee, ABB Inc., a global energy and technology company, “received over $16 million in stimulus funds to create green energy manufacturing jobs” and has “laid off workers in the U.S. and transferred work to Mexico.”“That sounds like somebody taking facts and just twisting them,” said Barry Dillon, the spokesman for ABB, based in North Carolina. Mr. Dillon said the company employs 19,000 people in the United States, and another 8,000 across Canada and Mexico. Employment is up in the United States, he said.“There’s nothing wholesale that we moved from the U.S. into Mexico,” Mr. Dillon said. In a detailed e-mail, Mr. Dillon wrote that the company has been expanding in both the United States and Mexico to meet rising demands of the market.The R.N.C. also accuses Mr. Obama’s administration of sending $1.3 billion in loan guarantees to a company that will manufacture solar panels in Mexico. A spokeswoman for the SunPower Corporation, based in California, said a “large number of the panels” would be built at the company’s facility in Milpitas, Calif., for installation at a “solar ranch” in California. Some will be built at its plants in Asia and Mexico, said the spokeswoman, Natalie Wymer. The federal loan guarantee, which was closer to $1.2 billion, actually went to another company, NRG Solar, which owns the solar ranch.ImageCredit...Adam Bird for The New York TimesAnd Fisker Automotive, a manufacturer of luxury hybrid electric cars based in Anaheim, Calif., said the Republican committee’s description of the company as a “stimulus recipient” was false. The Obama administration approved up to $529 million in loans for the company, but they were under a George W. Bush-era program intended to spur more fuel-efficient technologies, not the stimulus package. The company has taken only $193 million of the loans. In addition, the company disputes Republican claims that Fisker’s federal money “went abroad for jobs that weren’t created in the United States.” The company is assembling its first electric car, called the Karma, in Finland. But Fisker and Energy Department officials say the portion of the loans being used for the Karma — about $169 million — has been spent on hiring and other functions solely in California and Michigan. “Every single dollar of the loan has been used in the U.S.,” said Roger Ormisher, Fisker’s senior director of global communications.Mr. Romney has previously attacked the loans to Fisker, which has Democratic connections: One investor, the firm Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers, includes Obama supporters and counts as a senior partner former Vice President Al Gore.Despite the low-interest federal loans, the company has struggled recently, and it laid off 66 workers earlier this year. Last year, the Energy Department also blocked Fisker’s access to most of the loans because the company had not met certain milestones built into the loan agreement. The company said it still had 500 American employees on its payroll. But Mr. Ormisher said that the company had raised more than $1 billion in private funds and that the company expected to start repaying the federal loans next year. Mr. Obama spent Tuesday in Iowa, where he focused on his proposal to extend middle-class tax cuts for a year. But his campaign continued to make the outsourcing charge against Mr. Romney, largely through a television commercial running in nine battleground states. The ad alleges that Mr. Romney’s companies “were pioneers in outsourcing U.S. jobs to low-wage countries.”The ad leaves the impression that Mr. Romney directed those investments. In fact, there is compelling evidence to suggest that Mr. Romney had largely left day-to-day control of Bain Capital to his partners after 1999, when the activity at issue took place.Stephanie Cutter, a deputy campaign manager for Mr. Obama, points out that Bain is listed in Securities and Exchange Commission documents as “wholly owned” by Mr. Romney during that period, and that Mr. Romney is listed as a “general partner and a member of the management committee.”The central question is whether Mr. Romney’s ownership of Bain — which the campaign does not deny — makes him responsible for the firm’s actions in his absence.FactCheck.org, which examined Mr. Obama’s claims, concluded that it did not. It noted that Mr. Romney stated on federal financial disclosure forms that he had “not had any active role with any Bain Capital entity and has not been involved in the operations of any Bain Capital entity in any way.”Advisers to Mr. Obama say those statements are self-serving. And they note that Mr. Romney is often eager to take credit for job growth and other positive outcomes that emerged from Bain’s activities long after he left.There is little indication that either side will give their rhetoric a rest, no matter how much outside truth-squadding calls out both campaigns. On Tuesday, Mr. Romney, campaigning in Grand Junction, Colo., insisted that he was not guilty of outsourcing.“If there’s an outsourcer in chief, it’s the president of the United States,” he said. 