    
The debate takes place at the University of New Hampshire. | AP Photo When is the next Democratic presidential debate?
The next Democratic presidential debate is Thursday in Durham, New Hampshire, and is hosted by MSNBC. Upset by a scant debate schedule, Democrats successfully urged the Democratic National Committee to make a last-minute addition, in addition to three other sanctioned debates in the coming months. It was originally thought that Hillary Clinton’s front-runner status would make her averse to more debates, but a closer-than-expected contest (and well-reviewed Clinton performances in the debates thus far) has made her more agreeable, even eager.Bernie Sanders at first seemed reluctant about this week’s hasty scheduling, but he confirmed this morning that he’ll participate tomorrow. The debate takes place at the University of New Hampshire, the state’s “flagship public university” that’s classified as a sea- and space-grant university. The setting should not be unfamiliar to the candidates: Sanders and Clinton have each held events on campus this campaign cycle. Author John Irving is an alumnus. What time is the debate and how will it be formatted?
The debate starts at 9 p.m. EST and should resemble past Democratic debates that touched on differences in health care policy and gun rights legislation. Clinton and Sanders have been going after each other today on the meaning of “progressive.” Clinton has argued that her experience proves her liberal bona fides, while Sanders has taken a more philosophical perch, highlighting the purity of his politics. It shouldn’t be a surprise if Sanders goes after Clinton on trade and climate issues.
How can I watch the debate?
The debate will air on MSNBC, and it’s also possible to stream it on NBCNews.com and MSNBC.com.
Who will moderate the debate?
Rachel Maddow and Chuck Todd, no strangers to interviewing the candidates, will moderate, with help from the Union Leader. Maddow has been spotlighting covering the water crisis in Flint, Michigan, but she’ll return to the 2016 horse race in a very public manner tomorrow. Todd had a tertiary role in the previous NBC debate, but he’ll take center stage at this one.
What’s changed since the previous debate?
The first votes of 2016 were cast, with Clinton and Sanders essentially tied. Clinton ended up winning the Iowa caucuses after a night of uncertainty, yet she secured just eight more delegates than Sanders. This has given Sanders even more of an aura of viability at a time when he’s expected to secure his first formal victory over Clinton in New Hampshire. Clinton has a comprehensive plan — with help from top local politicians — to bounce back in the first primary next week.
Could a strong showing in the debate and primary offer Sanders a chance to win more states?
If Sanders is able to maintain his significant lead in the polls and win convincingly, the primary could be an impetus for continued growth. Yet Clinton and her well-known husband have been preparing for this possibility, building her ground game across primary states that follow New Hampshire and can help her definitively put away Sanders. Sanders may have a younger demographic secured, but Clinton could have a wider spread of voters that overshadows his more limited base.
When is the next Republican debate?
The next Republican debate is this Saturday in Manchester, New Hampshire. ABC News returns as a host, as does Saint Anselm College. David Muir and Martha Raddatz will moderate again. The criteria for making the debate have been released.
When is the next Democratic debate?
The next Democratic debate takes place at the University of Wisconsin-Milwaukee on Thursday, Feb. 11. PBS will host, with “NewsHour” anchors Judy Woodruff and Gwen Ifill moderating. 
