VideotranscripttranscriptJohn Kasich on Second-Place FinishGovernor Kasich spoke after the results were announced in the Republican presidential primary in New Hampshire.NAGovernor Kasich spoke after the results were announced in the Republican presidential primary in New Hampshire.CreditCredit...Stephen Crowley/The New York TimesFeb. 10, 2016MANCHESTER, N.H. — Gov. John R. Kasich of Ohio savored his come-from-behind, second-place finish in the New Hampshire Republican primary on Tuesday night as if it were an outright victory.But the road ahead for his presidential campaign remains arduous and uphill.Mr. Kasich, who finished near the bottom of the pack in Iowa with less than 2 percent of the vote, had staked his campaign on a strong showing in New Hampshire. And he got one, setting up what looks like an increasingly protracted Republican nominating contest, which now heads to South Carolina, where Mr. Kasich is not expected to fare as well.His team hinged its entire strategy on New Hampshire, quietly stringing together town-hall-style events in the state while other candidates devoted much of their time and resources to Iowa.He avoided directly attacking his rivals, even as they bashed one another in ads and debates, and he won the endorsement of most of New Hampshire’s newspapers — as well as The Boston Globe — fueling a surge in the polls that could not have been better timed.After Gov. Chris Christie of New Jersey viciously mocked Senator Marco Rubio of Florida in Saturday’s debate, roiling the race in its final weekend, Mr. Kasich appeared to benefit most: Nearly one in four New Hampshire voters who made up their minds in the last few days went with Mr. Kasich, exit polls showed.“Maybe, just maybe, we are turning the page on a dark part of American politics,” an elated Mr. Kasich told hundreds of ebullient supporters, many of them volunteers from outside the state, at a primary-night party in Concord on Tuesday night. “Because tonight, the light overcame the darkness of American campaigning.”He received strong support from moderates and from people particularly worried about the nation’s economy, exit polls showed. He won 17 percent of the primary’s undeclared voters — more than any candidate other than Donald J. Trump, who won 36 percent.Mr. Kasich cast himself as a “happy warrior” with an optimistic message: As the son of a mail carrier, who understands the concerns of middle-class Americans, he argues he is well prepared to fix the nation’s economy.John Weaver, Mr. Kasich’s top strategist, has a long history of steering moderate candidates to victory in the state: He was one of the architects of Senator John McCain’s “Straight Talk Express” campaign bus in 2000, and he helped Jon M. Huntsman Jr., the former governor of Utah, finish third here in 2012.In an interview, Mr. Weaver volunteered that South Carolina, which holds the next Republican primary on Feb. 20, is not a “must-win” for Mr. Kasich.The moderate messages on health care and immigration, among other issues, that helped Mr. Kasich draw support from centrist Republican and independent voters in New Hampshire is likely to alienate some of South Carolina’s more conservative base.His expansion of Medicaid in Ohio, for example, is considered a betrayal by many conservatives. And while four in five New Hampshire voters who backed Mr. Kasich said they favored a path to citizenship for immigrants who entered the country illegally, just 56 percent of all primary voters in New Hampshire shared that view.Still, Mr. Weaver argued that Mr. Kasich’s campaign would gain a burst of momentum that would sustain him until the Michigan primary, on March 8, which he called a “must-win” and the “gateway to the Midwest.”“We’re organized in Michigan, Illinois, Missouri, the Plains states, the Rocky Mountain states,” Mr. Weaver said.He said that Mr. Kasich’s team was adding staff members and had strong fund-raising numbers in January, although he declined to say what those figures were. “We have a national campaign, but we were toiling in obscurity,” he said.But Mr. Kasich’s rivals were less convinced. “John Kasich has no chance to do well in the South Carolina primary,” said Tim Miller, a spokesman for Jeb Bush’s campaign.And Senator Lindsey Graham of South Carolina said that while Mr. Kasich was a “fine man,” the Ohio governor would have a difficult time in that state.“He talks about closing military bases, and most people in South Carolina, we have a lot of military infrastructure and we need to draw up our military,” said Mr. Graham, who is supporting Mr. Bush.Henry Barbour, a veteran Republican strategist based in Mississippi, commended Mr. Kasich’s second-place finish but noted that he had benefited from what Mr. Barbour called “a refreshing contrast with the rest of the field with his positive message to their food fight.”“Oh, and by the way,” Mr. Barbour added, “he should buy Chris Christie a steak dinner for his hand in changing the entire momentum of the race in New Hampshire just three days before the primary.”