Marked by vicious insults and shouting that left CNN moderator Wolf Blitzer at times scrambling to maintain control, the final debate before Super Tuesday set a new low for a Republican Party that, counter-intuitively, desperately needed this moment to occur. For the first time in 10 debates and six months, Marco Rubio and Ted Cruz finally ignored each other and turned on Donald Trump, viciously attacking his record, character, and policy platform, which Rubio memorably described as “Everyone’s dumb, he’s going to make America great again. Win, win, win.” But with nearly half of the delegates needed to win the nomination on the line, and Trump still leading in almost every state, it remains unclear whether the chaos of Thursday night will be enough to catapult either candidate into the front-runner position.On its surface, the debate was so crazy that during one three-way exchange between Trump, Rubio, and Cruz, CNN’s closed-captioning gave up and simply wrote “unintelligible yelling”. But behind the chaos (and Ben Carson’s bizarre line about fruit salad was a new strategy to take down Trump: attack him, unrelentingly. As soon as the debate started, they both sandwiched him on immigration, with Cruz calling his plan “amnesty” (the A-word of conservatism), and Rubio emphatically attacking Trump for illegally hiring Polish workers, paying a million-dollar fine for doing so. “If he builds the wall the way he built Trump Tower, he'll be using illegal immigrants to do it,” he joked. They continued to tag-team him on several of his past scandals, such as the lawsuit he is facing over “fake school” Trump University (a mere civil suit, Trump retorted), the tax returns he has not released (because, Trump claimed, he is currently being audited), and what both described as his total lack of actual policy plans to deal with real problems.Rubio especially had several breakout moments, armed with a series of comebacks and quick to respond to Trump’s almost-clichéd insults. (At one point during a heated exchange about health care, Trump brought up Rubio’s much-maligned gaffe where he repeated himself “five times” during the New Hampshire debates. “I just watched you repeat yourself five times five seconds ago,” Rubio responded, unable to conceal his delight at having turned the tables.) At times, it appeared that Rubio had taken several lessons from the Trump Academy of the Dramatic Arts, rolling his eyes, waving his hands about for effect, and seeming far more human than the “Marco Roboto” of weeks past.Even Cruz supporter Glenn Beck said that it was the Florida senator’s best performance yet, giving new life to Rubio’s campaign and, perhaps, reviving hopes Trump would not run away with the Republican nomination.But despite a much more spirited performance from the two senators, Trump continued to leverage the same talking points against them, amping up the vitriol. Rubio was now a sweaty-faced “choke artist” instead of just an inexperienced young man who kept “repeating” himself; Cruz was no longer just a “liar” who screwed over Carson in Iowa, but a “basket case” and a “crazy zealot.” (Cruz responded in turn, asking Trump to “get back on [his] meds”.)It seemed last night that Rubio and Cruz finally realized what the rest of the country had long known: by attacking each other, they had allowed Trump to metastasize, enticing both the moderates Rubio wanted and the hard right that Cruz thought he could win. Instead of attempting to knock each other out in order to lay claim to a dramatic final showdown with Trump, they combined forces to prevent him from having a shot at the nomination. By most measures, they appeared successful, reducing Trump to a pile of angry talking points. But the billionaire former reality-TV star has enjoyed a bizarre resiliency; six months of nonstop attacks by G.O.P. leaders have failed to slow his momentum, and likely even have empowered him. Rubio and Cruz showed backbone Thursday, the one thing Republican voters have seemed to value above all other qualities this election cycle. But given that it took them until virtually the last minute before Super Tuesday to go on the offensive, their spectacular night could prove to be their grand finale.What Might Donald Trump ​Really​ Think About the Great Wall?By Erik Tanner/Contour/Getty Images (Trump).