Political MemoCredit...Gabriella Demczuk for The New York TimesFeb. 18, 2016CHARLESTON, S.C. — It is not yet clear which Republican presidential candidate will emerge from Saturday’s South Carolina primary with the biggest boost. But it is becoming increasingly apparent which two would suffer most from a disappointing performance.South Carolina will render a brutal and perhaps final verdict on Jeb Bush’s campaign if he does not at least finish close to Senator Marco Rubio of Florida. Mr. Bush, the former Florida governor, has made an all-out push here, campaigning aggressively for 10 days and bringing in his brother, former President George W. Bush, for his first public campaign speech in nearly a decade.Failing to break through, after all that, would raise fundamental questions about Mr. Bush’s ability to consolidate support from mainstream Republican voters.Late Thursday, he acknowledged a mounting sense of gloom.“I hope that you believe that it’s possible for us to do this,” Mr. Bush told voters in Rock Hill as he wrapped up a town hall-style forum. “I hope you don’t think the end is near.”Among the hard-line conservatives in the race, Senator Ted Cruz of Texas will face new questions about the potential of his campaign if he is unable to broaden his appeal and continues to allow Donald J. Trump, the heavy favorite here, to cut into his support from evangelical Christians.Mr. Bush and Mr. Cruz are not seen as competing directly with each other, and their support comes from starkly different pools of voters. But for both men, the gravest danger this weekend is that they end up being overshadowed in a lasting way by their most immediate competitors, just as the primary campaign begins to spread across a wider map of states in March.“Anybody who finishes below third will raise serious questions about how they go forward,” former Gov. Haley Barbour of Mississippi said when asked what was at stake for Mr. Bush. “And that message will be most pronounced by those candidates’ donors.”Mr. Bush and Mr. Cruz are plainly aware of the pressure on their candidacies here, and they are hurrying to make their cases to voters — while also showing signs of frustration.Mr. Bush has alternated between expressions of exasperation — “We don’t have to go vote, I guess. It’s all finished. I should just stop campaigning, maybe, huh?” he said Wednesday — and demonstrative pleas for support.“I’m going to get on my hands and knees and ask for your vote after I answer this,” he told an undecided woman in Columbia on Thursday when she asked him about education policy.Mr. Cruz’s performance has been just as dizzying: a spaghetti-at-the-wall medley of attacks, self-defense and spectacle. After he absorbed blows on the issue of defense, where Mr. Rubio in particular has branded him as dovish, Mr. Cruz’s team hastily convened a gathering on Tuesday aboard an aircraft carrier near here, where he unveiled a set of national security proposals.On Wednesday, he mused to the news media for 40 minutes about how much he looked forward to deposing Mr. Trump, should the litigious New Yorker sue him. And on Thursday, Mr. Cruz suggested that his Texas roots left him well-positioned to understand South Carolinians.“I’m told people in South Carolina kind of like their guns,” he said at a Republican women’s club event in Greenville. “I have to say, as a Texan, I understand. Remember the Alamo.”For Mr. Rubio, too, much is at stake: He is seen as the candidate who has gained the most ground over the last week and is campaigning with South Carolina’s popular governor, Nikki R. Haley, at his side. Polls show that Mr. Rubio remains broadly appealing to a cross-section of Republican primary voters, in South Carolina and nationally, with many voters describing him as their second choice.ImageCredit...Travis Dove for The New York TimesThe same is not true for Mr. Bush, whose appeal seems confined to moderates, or for Mr. Cruz, whose popularity among strongly ideological activists has not translated into a wider national following.The race in South Carolina has illustrated Mr. Cruz’s basic predicament: He has been pinched between Mr. Trump’s anti-establishment legions and Mr. Rubio’s looser coalition of mainstream Republicans and evangelical voters.If Mr. Cruz cannot win votes outside of the hard right here, he will most likely struggle to win larger states against Mr. Trump and Mr. Rubio, even in the conservative Deep South.“Cruz’s only path in a three-way race is to get it to a two-way,” said Carl Forti, a Republican strategist.Absent strong showings Saturday, Mr. Bush and Mr. Cruz could face the embarrassing prospect of losing their home states. Mr. Bush, who has little cash left, would have a hard time even lasting until Florida’s March 15 primary.Mr. Cruz would still be formidable when Texas and a host of other states vote on March 1, but an overwhelming win here by Mr. Trump would force him to spend time and money in Texas rather than strictly playing offense in conservative states like Georgia and Tennessee.William J. Miller, an influential Texas lobbyist who has not endorsed a presidential candidate, said the race in Texas could become a blowout for Mr. Trump if no one slows him in South Carolina or Nevada, which votes on Tuesday.“It’s his game right now,” Mr. Miller said of Mr. Trump. “If he sweeps it, these other candidates will get swept out, and he’ll come into Texas with the wind at his back.”In that event, Mr. Miller said, the hard-line Mr. Cruz would find himself “scrambling to get support from people who are not necessarily friends of his.”Mr. Cruz’s advisers argue that they have the potential to build support among several groups, most notably libertarians still casting about for a candidate since Senator Rand Paul of Kentucky’s departure from the race. An ad released on Thursday, titled “Nevada Land,” seemed directly aimed at libertarians; it attacked Mr. Trump for refusing to say he would return federal land to Nevada’s residents.For Mr. Bush, the situation is far more dire. After finishing narrowly ahead of Mr. Rubio in New Hampshire, Mr. Bush has been upstaged by him here.Mr. Bush began the week with a forceful debate performance and an energetic campaign swing with his brother, but by Wednesday, the center of attention had shifted to Mr. Rubio and his endorsement from Ms. Haley, who is appearing in a new ad for Mr. Rubio and campaigning alongside him.Mr. Bush’s campaign has worked to demonstrate that he is in the race for the long haul and capable of a strong finish here. A set of talking points emailed to his supporters on Thursday, and provided to a New York Times reporter by a recipient, highlighted Mr. Bush’s endorsements from South Carolinians, including Senator Lindsey Graham, and noted that Ms. Haley’s endorsement of Mitt Romney in 2012 had not stopped Newt Gingrich from defeating Mr. Romney in the primary here.But Mr. Bush’s problems in South Carolina go beyond Mr. Rubio. He also appears to be losing votes to Gov. John Kasich of Ohio, who is wooing the sort of moderates who might otherwise be in Mr. Bush’s camp.“Every vote he gets comes from us,” Mr. Graham said of Mr. Kasich. “He’s done more damage to us than Haley has helped Rubio.”