For weeks, Marco Rubio’s strategy has been dubbed “3-2-1,” meaning, come in third in Iowa, second in New Hampshire, and first in South Carolina. Now, Rubio seems to have tweaked the formula to something more like 3-5-2-3-2-3-2-3-2-3-2. For some reason this still makes Rubio the prohibitive favorite, according to some of our prognosticators. The Florida senator has recently picked up establishment backers, including Bob Dole and Tim Pawlenty, and important new donors, several of them availed from the wreckage of the Jeb Bush campaign. Many forecasters now speak of a two-man race between him and Donald Trump.Don’t you see why? Nationally, Rubio polls at 16 percent, so all he now has to do is knock out Ted Cruz and win Texas (and all of its 155 delegates), and then crush John Kasich to make room for Ohio (66 delegates)—all for the glory of going head-to-head with Trump, the candidate of 10,000 flame throwers, at which point primary voters across the nation would throw over Trump, vaulting Rubio from third place to first, erasing the huge delegate deficit Rubio will face after Super Tuesday. It’s that simple.Maybe you’re skeptical. Maybe I’m skeptical. Maybe Marco Rubio is skeptical. Hypothetically, though, we can flesh out a case for how Rubio wins—how he converts a strategy of second-, third-, fourth-, and fifth-place finishes into political triumph. Here are three main factors to consider, from the ephemeral to the arithmetic.I. THE “MODERATE” CHARMNo one should deny that Rubio is a skilled politician who delivers good stump speeches and speaks clearly. There’s also a sweetness to him that seems hard to fake (hard, I say, but not impossible). When Rubio refers to commercials making fun of his boots, or admits he “did not do well” in the debate, or contrasts himself to a petulant Trump and Cruz by saying, “Don’t worry—I’m not leaving the stage no matter what you ask me,” he’s hard to hate. His kids are adorable. Best of all, Rubio seems sincere even when telling a lie, while Cruz seems mendacious even when telling the truth. I’ll note in passing that it’s an unfair world to Ted Cruz, and yet Cruz deserves it. Mull that paradox, if you like.Rubio’s appealing manner has earned him the label of “moderate,” which is mostly a benefit, because even primary voters who are tepid toward Rubio might be persuaded to vote for him, so the theory goes, if they think you might vote for him, too. (For what it’s worth, the same great thinking went into nominating John Kerry.)To be sure, however, Rubio isn’t what most of us, Democrat or Republican, would call moderate. His core portfolio of policies—more force abroad, more immigration at home, bigger tax cuts, less government-subsidized health care, lower Social Security payments—has the support of, oh, maybe eight or nine ordinary voters. But G.O.P. Washington and K Street love it. Rubio is a fine new wrapping in which to present the same old butter cookies. If anyone can prevent the G.O.P. from having to offer anything other than a new face, it's him.II. MONEY HONEY INCONSISTENCYRubio’s greatest strength may be a steady detachment from consistency, or words, as most of us understand them. He’s not wedded to what most would call “truth,” or even to what he said yesterday.Let us continue to be cynical, albeit not wrong, for a moment: candidates take in donations by signaling that they’re partially—just partially—for sale. They usually have some core convictions (maybe on the place of faith in public life, or the importance of free enterprise, or universal health care) and put the rest up for auction—views on ethanol subsidies, hedge-fund taxation, tort reform, etc. This isn’t purely sleazy. Everyone has to raise money in order to run a campaign, and most of us have issues we care about and others we don’t.But Rubio stands out for having even fewer, if any, convictions that appear to be above monetary influence, which makes him like a rare-earth magnet for donor-class bidders. Want him to change position on amnesty? He’ll say he never said he opposed amnesty, merely “blanket amnesty.” He’ll publish an op-ed in Breitbart on Wednesday and dismiss the site on Saturday as “not a credible source” that “we don’t even credential.” With Bush out of the way, the candidate dubbed the “malleable man of maneuver” by Pat Buchanan (even Buchanan detractors must give him points for that phrase) promises to attract torrents of money.III. SOME SHAKY MATHLet’s go to the map.The next big day of voting is on March 1, also known as Super Tuesday, when 12 states go to the polls. Presently, Trump leads in nine of those states; Cruz leads in two (Texas and Arkansas); and Colorado, last polled in November (Ben Carson led), is a mystery. Odds are good, then, that Trump will take at least a third of the 595 delegates at stake, and maybe closer to half. If we project that Rubio doubles his national average and takes a third of the vote (and we must project such things to get him anywhere), then he will be running a close second to Trump, with about 200 delegates to Trump’s 300 or so.