Credit...Dan Koeck for The New York TimesApril 2, 2016FARGO, N.D. — North Dakota is not accustomed to being one of the way stations on the path to the White House. Given its meager number of delegates and its tiny, remote media markets, it is rare for a presidential campaign to give this state the time of day.But here was Senator Ted Cruz on Saturday, addressing the state’s Republican convention and leading the crowd of several thousand to a standing ovation with a thunderous appeal to North Dakota’s sudden relevance. “It is entirely possible the men and women gathered here will decide this entire primary, will decide this nomination,” he said. Mr. Cruz also dispatched Carly Fiorina, a former rival who has endorsed him, to warm up the crowd before he spoke. Ben Carson worked the convention floor on behalf of Donald J. Trump, shaking hands and posing for pictures. Gov. John Kasich of Ohio sent Gordon Humphrey, the former two-term Republican senator from New Hampshire, to do his bidding.North Dakota’s sudden appearance in the spotlight is one of the most unmistakable signs yet that the party could be headed to its first contested national convention in 40 years, where the state’s 28 delegates — barely 1 percent of the overall total — could make a difference in who wins the nomination. Because of the unusual way North Dakota selects its delegates to the national convention, it may not be immediately clear which candidate made the biggest impression here. The state’s Republicans do not hold a primary or caucuses; instead, the party activists who streamed into Fargo this weekend will elect a slate of 25 delegates on Sunday. Those delegates, plus three unelected ones, do not have to publicly declare their intentions before they vote at the national convention in July, and they are free to change their minds at any time.State party conventions like the one here in Fargo this weekend are dress rehearsals of sorts for the national convention, which will be held in Cleveland. Assuming no candidate clinches the nomination by winning a majority of delegates before the convention, all the herding, arm-twisting, and wooing of delegates that is expected to unfold there is now beginning on a smaller scale.If campaign placards, stickers and other paraphernalia served as a sort of unscientific straw poll, Mr. Cruz was outpacing his rivals. Save for a Kasich sticker here and a Trump sign there, the hockey arena where North Dakota Republicans gathered on Saturday was Cruz country.Many here said they admired Mr. Cruz’s willingness to irk the Republican establishment.“Anyone who can get shot on the Senate floor and it wouldn’t be a crime, you’ve got to vote for someone like that,” said Terry Schantz, a rancher from Glen Ullin, N.D. Mr. Schantz was referring to a comment by one of Mr. Cruz’s fellow Republican senators, Lindsey Graham of South Carolina, that Mr. Cruz was so loathed by his colleagues that one of them could kill him and no other senator would care.Still, some cautioned that Mr. Cruz should not become cocky. “There’s something called ‘North Dakota Nice,’ ” said Ed Schafer, a former governor and an agriculture secretary under George W. Bush. “People wearing those red stickers aren’t necessarily voting for him. They’re saying, ‘Welcome to North Dakota.’ ” Mr. Cruz was the only candidate to appear in person. Mr. Trump had asked the North Dakota Republican Party if he could address the convention on video but was told he could not, Republican officials said. Both he and Mr. Kasich spent Saturday campaigning in Wisconsin, which holds its primaries on Tuesday.The importance of just a few delegates is evident in the fights that are already breaking out in some states between the Trump and Cruz campaigns.On Friday, Mr. Trump’s campaign director in Tennessee accused the Republican Party of trying to steal delegates from the real estate mogul, who won the state’s primary on March 1. Mr. Trump is entitled to most of Tennessee’s 58 delegates. But a wrinkle in the rules there allows the state party’s executive committee to pick 14 of those delegates, alarming Trump supporters who are concerned party leaders are filling those slots with people backing other candidates.A similar situation is playing out in Louisiana, where Mr. Cruz’s campaign could end up with more delegates than Mr. Trump, who won the state’s primary, because of rules that allow certain delegates flexibility in casting their votes. The Trump campaign said it planned to file a formal complaint with the Republican National Committee on the grounds that it was excluded from a meeting at which state party officials discussed how delegates would be allocated.And in a sign of the discord, even a place as serene as North Dakota was not moving ahead in a unanimous fashion. When state party officials released their list of favored delegates on Saturday, people immediately rose from the crowd to offer competing slates, ensuring a contested vote on Sunday.