News AnalysisApril 22, 2016Credit...Eiko OjalaWHEN Hubert H. Humphrey captured the Democratic presidential nomination in 1968, at a Democratic convention marked by violence on the streets and protests in the hall by supporters of Eugene McCarthy, Yippie anti-war demonstrators threatened to spike Chicago’s water system with L.S.D. and enlist a squad of virile men to seduce the wives and daughters of delegates.Eight years later, at a more civil if also divided Republican convention in Kansas City, Mo., Ronald Reagan ended his challenge to the incumbent president, Gerald R. Ford, with a triumphant speech that essentially ignored Ford and laid out a future course for what would be Reagan’s 1980 presidential race. Ford later complained that Reagan never campaigned for him, blaming him in part for the defeat.With that historical perspective, the animosity surrounding the endgame in the Democratic presidential contest between Hillary Clinton, the former secretary of state, and Bernie Sanders, the Vermont senator, looks less dramatic. Mrs. Clinton posted a double-digit victory over Mr. Sanders in New York on Tuesday; some of his own supporters are beginning to acknowledge what seems to be her insurmountable lead; and Democrats are suggesting that the time has come to bring the two wings of the party together.But as Ford and Humphrey learned, putting a fractured party back together again is never as easy as it seems. And unifying the party is almost always the first step to victory: American politics is littered with the failed campaigns of candidates whose defeat was explained, at least in part, by the lingering poison of a rancorous nomination battle.Over the past 50 years, as polling has become more sophisticated and rigorous, there is abundant evidence of general election fallout from bitter primaries, as supporters of the losing candidate either stayed home on Election Day or headed to the other side of the ballot. And Mrs. Clinton, who can be a lackluster presence on the campaign trail, could use the spirit that Mr. Sanders has brought to this campaign, in the form of huge rallies teeming with young first-time voters who have proved, since the election of President Obama in 2008, to be a critical part of the Democratic coalition. Of no less concern are the white male voters who favor Mr. Sanders and who might be a prime target for the Republicans.Unity is, of course, a problem for both parties. Whatever bad feelings might exist between Mr. Sanders and Mrs. Clinton, they pale in contrast to the Republican side, where Donald J. Trump has warned of violence in the streets should any of his opponents, including Senator Ted Cruz of Texas, end up with the nomination. Mr. Trump seems to be becoming aware of his own divided-party challenges, with his deferential reference to “Senator Cruz,” rather than “Lyin’ Ted” in his New York victory speech.But Priscilla Southwell, a professor of political science at the University of Oregon who has written extensively on party divisions, said historically this has been more a Democratic problem than a Republican one. “I call it the politics of disgruntlement,” she said. “Backers of the candidate tend to stay home or vote for the other party. Highly contested nominations hurt the party.”“I think the Democratic Party needs to be worried,” Ms. Southwell added. “Many of these Sanders voters are first-time voters. They are the ones who will feel the kind of psychological aspects of this, the sense of disgruntlement, and stay home.”In a CBS News poll this month, 24 percent of Mr. Sanders’s supporters said they would not support Mrs. Clinton should she win the nomination. Among Republicans, 32 percent of Mr. Trump’s supporters said they would not support Mr. Cruz in a general election; 27 percent of Mr. Cruz’s backers said they would not vote for Mr. Trump in November.For Mrs. Clinton, this means that at a moment when she would like to turn to the general election, she is going to have to devote time and resources on the Sanders wing of the Democratic Party. In her victory speech in New York, that seemed very much on Mrs. Clinton’s mind. “To all the people who supported Senator Sanders, I believe there is much more that unites us than divides us,” she said.As the past half-century of campaigns has demonstrated, there is much Mrs. Clinton can do beyond a few words in a victory speech. She could offer Mr. Sanders a prime-time speaking spot at the convention. She could pick a vice president who shares the concerns that have animated Mr. Sanders’s crowds. She could take a lesson from John F. Kennedy, who made his primary archrival, Lyndon Baines Johnson, his running mate in 1960. (Given that Mr. Sanders is 74 and Mrs. Clinton is 68, that seems unlikely.)She could also include planks in the Democratic Party platform that incorporate Mr. Sanders’s positions. If Mr. Sanders ends up with a campaign debt, Mrs. Clinton can also promise to help pay it off, as President Obama did for her back in 2008.But there may be limits to what Mrs. Clinton herself can do to earn the support of his voters. She moved to the left throughout the primary as she adjusted to Mr. Sanders’s challenges. Slipping back to the center in preparation for a general election battle, which is something Mrs. Clinton would presumably like to do, might complicate the effort to appeal to Mr. Sanders’s voters, who are already wary of the former first lady.An even more central question is whether Mr. Sanders, who before this campaign did not even call himself a Democrat and has seemed increasingly put off by Mrs. Clinton, will wholeheartedly endorse her should she win the nomination.And that is only the first hurdle. Howard Dean, who lost the Democratic presidential nomination in 2004 to John Kerry, said he had no trouble endorsing Mr. Kerry over George W. Bush; getting his supporters to cross that bridge proved more difficult.“It’s much easier for the candidate to understand that he or she has to get with the program,” said Mr. Dean, who supports Mrs. Clinton. “I had made up my mind that I was going to support John, but bringing supporters along was much tougher.”He said they eventually came around, and offered what appeared to be a bit of advice for Mr. Sanders. “It took some time,” he said. “And if I hadn’t made it clear that is what I wanted them to do, it would have been tougher.“After losing to President Jimmy Carter in a rancorous primary battle in 1980, Senator Edward M. Kennedy went back to his supporters and urged them to transfer their allegiance to Mr. Carter. It didn’t always go well. “I remember at one labor stop he was saying, ‘I want you to give the same support to Jimmy Carter that you gave to me last spring,’ ” said Robert Shrum, who was a senior adviser to Mr. Kennedy at the time. “They all just sat there. And he said, ‘I’m going to say that line again and you’re to stand and applaud.’ ”It’s even worse when the candidate doesn’t try. The 1988 Democratic nomination battle was marked by a tense and racially charged face-off between Michael S. Dukakis and Jesse L. Jackson, the civil rights leader. Mr. Dukakis didn’t help the drive for unity when he rejected Mr. Jackson’s request to be named his running mate, and instead chose a relatively conservative Texan, Lloyd M. Bentsen, a choice Mr. Jackson learned not from the campaign but from a reporter.Mr. Jackson’s supporters appeared to return the favor; turnout in black neighborhoods in November was significantly down from 1984, and Mr. Dukakis was defeated by George H. W. Bush.Joshua M. Zeitz, a historian who has studied primary polarization, said there were two routes a nominee could follow: “You either have to swallow your pride and work with that faction that was so angry at your nomination, or if you decide to go the purist route,” ignore them and their views.Consider 1964, when supporters of Barry Goldwater, the conservative who defeated Nelson Rockefeller to win the Republican nomination, took the second route, shouting down moderate Republicans and pushing through a strictly conservative platform. Goldwater lost in a landslide to Johnson that November.Mr. Zeitz said there were similarities between the Goldwater supporters in 1964, the McCarthy delegates in 1968 and the Sanders supporters today.“Sanders has animated a portion of the population that seems to have no affinity for or concern for the Democratic Party, the same way that the Goldwater delegates or McCarthy delegates felt they were willing to tear down the party,” Mr. Zeitz said. “When it’s a newly animated voter base that doesn’t care about maintaining the unity for the party, that makes it harder.”And Stephen H. Hess, who worked as a senior adviser to Ford at the 1976 convention and was a volunteer for Thomas E. Dewey at the 1952 convention, said the general acceleration of political combat of the current era has made reconciliation tougher to accomplish.“You’d go home and cool off,” he said. “There weren’t these threats — independent candidacies, riots.”Yet nominees have, by necessity, found ways to move beyond a primary fight. Mr. Bush acidly described Reagan’s promise to raise military spending and cutting taxes as “voodoo economics” during the 1980 campaign, but that didn’t stop Reagan from choosing him as his running mate, and Mr. Bush from being an aggressively loyal partner.In 2008, Mrs. Clinton endorsed Mr. Obama soon after she dropped out and dramatically went to the convention floor to urge that the party nominate Mr. Obama by acclamation. David Axelrod, the senior political adviser to Mr. Obama, said the reconciliation was relatively easy — in no small part because Democrats had the whatever-it-takes hunger for victory that comes from being out of the White House for eight years. It certainly helped that Mrs. Clinton’s supporters knew she was young enough to run again; that may not be the case with Mr. Sanders.“The dynamic was different in 2008,” Mr. Axelrod said. “There were powerful reasons to come together. Not all of them exist here.”That said, he added that the mere prospect of a Trump or Cruz in the White House might do more to unify the Democratic Party than anything Mrs. Clinton or Mr. Sanders could do. “In 2008, the healing began very quickly, the coming together was surprisingly easy. And I suspect that will happen here.”