Credit...Drew Angerer for The New York TimesMay 5, 2016WASHINGTON — In an extraordinary rebuke of his party’s presumed nominee, Speaker Paul D. Ryan, the nation’s highest-ranking elected Republican, said Thursday that he was “not ready” to endorse Donald J. Trump for president.Mr. Ryan’s announcement represented a split among Republicans not seen in at least a half century, and it came only two days after Mr. Trump said he would unify the party after essentially clinching the nomination with his victory in the Indiana primary.As the chairman of the Republican National Convention, Mr. Ryan has repeatedly said he would support his party’s nominee as Republicans tried to regain the White House and solidify control of Congress.But the combination of Mr. Trump’s at times outrageous remarks — insulting women, Hispanics and Muslims — and his broad rejection of many core Republican policies proved too toxic a brew for Mr. Ryan as he defended his majority in the House, the reputation of his party and his own viability.Within an hour, Mr. Trump offered a biting rejoinder, saying in a statement that he was “not ready to support Speaker Ryan’s agenda.”“Perhaps in the future we can work together and come to an agreement about what is best for the American people,” he said. “They have been treated so badly for so long that it is about time for politicians to put them first!”Mr. Ryan, who made his remarks in an interview with CNN, said Republicans want “a standard-bearer that bears our standards.”“I think conservatives want to know: Does he share our values and our principles on limited government, the proper role of the executive, adherence to the Constitution?” he said. “There’s a lot of questions that conservatives, I think, are going to want answers to.”VideotranscripttranscriptGreat Clash: Donald Trump vs. Paul RyanA look at how the Republican speaker of the House and the party's nominee for president differ on issues including immigration, entitlements, and trade.SCRIPT: Applause - Ryan comes on stage
VO
HOUSE SPEAKER PAUL RYAN, THE CURRENT HEAD OF REPUBLICANS , WILL CHAIR THE PARTY’S NATIONAL CONVENTION IN JULY.
NAT - Ryan says “Hey Hey”
BUT HIS VIEWS ARE ALMOST THE POLAR OPPOSITE OF THE FRONTRUNNER FOR THE NOMINATION, DONALD J. TRUMP. http://fox6now.com/2016/02/19/fox6-news-sits-down-one-on-one-with-house-speaker-paul-ryan/
NATS OF TRUMP AT RALLY
VO
AFTER THE TERRORIST ATTACKS IN SAN BERNARDINO, MR. TRUMP CALLED FOR BARRING MUSLIMS FROM ENTERING THE UNITED STATES. MR. RYAN’S SWIFTLY REPUDIATED HIS REMARKS.  SOT: Trump 37149 3714937149 we also have this in our system (man, English, 15 sec):
“Donald J. Trump is calling for a total and complete shutdown of Muslims entering the United States until our country’s representatives can figure out what the hell is going on.”
//
SOT: Ryan 37165_1_paul-ryan-trump-muslims_wg
What was proposed yesterday is not what this party stands for and, more importantly, it is not what this country stands for.//
Some of our best and biggest allies in this struggle and fight against radical Islamic terror are Muslims. The vast, vast, vast, vast majority -  of whom are peaceful, who believe in pluralism, freedom, democracy, individual rights.
VO
AND JUST LAST WEEK, MR. TRUMP DEPARTED FROM THE REPUBLICAN PARTY’S TRADITIONAL POSITION OF STRONG SUPPORT FOR ISRAEL IN THE ISRAELI-PALESTINIAN CONFLICT. SOT: Trump: MSNBC “That’s probably the toughest deal in the world right now to make.// If I win... Let me be sort of a neutral guy,” VO
ON THE ISSUE OF ENTITLEMENTS, MR. TRUMP IS AGAINST CONSTRAINING SPENDING FOR SENIORS. MR. RYAN, ON THE OTHER HAND, IS THE ARCHITECT OF THE PARTY’S PLAN TO REIGN IT IN. SOTS: Ryan https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=n3VFuWqLBa8 Source Daniel Martinez via Youtube
“Social security...a cornerstone for many americans...is going bankrupt” SOT: Trump: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gp-pY9y4VCg Dr.Gina Loudon via Youtube
“All other people want to cut the hell out of it, I’m not going to cut it at all. I’m going to bring the money in and I am going to save it”
// VO
AND ON MATTERS OF FREE TRADE AGREEMENTS, MR. TRUMP IS PRESSING FOR AMERICAN ISOLATION WHILE MR. RYAN WANTS IS A KEY PROMOTER IN GLOBALIZATION.
SOT: Trump https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=kihtDxtcZ54 NFAtoys via youtube (FOX BUSINESS)
“We lose a fortune on trade. The U.S. loses with everybody. We;re losing over 500 billion dollars in terms of imbalance with china.
//
SOT: Ryan 37075_1_paul-ryan-on-tpp_wg
We have to engage, we have to lead. Only an active forward-leaning america can tear down barriers to american exports for our jobs.
//
SOT: Ryan: 37075_1_paul-ryan-on-tpp_wg
If we want to create good jobs, we need to make more things in America and sell them overseas. Let’s never forget 96% of the world’s people don’t live in the US. THey live in other countries and we will not sell them as much as we could if we don’t negotiate good trade agreements. VO
AS DONALD TRUMP’S LEAD STRENGTHENS IN THE PRESIDENTIAL RACE, THE REPUBLICAN PARTY WILL NEED TO FIGURE OUT A WAY TO RECONCILE THE DIFFERENCES. SOT: Trump: That was the end of that campaign, when they chose Ryan.
//
SOT: Ryan: Donald Trump makes comments about everybody. I don’t take any of this stuff personally. END ITA look at how the Republican speaker of the House and the party's nominee for president differ on issues including immigration, entitlements, and trade.CreditCredit...Jim Wilson/The New York Times; Doug Mills/The New York TimesMr. Ryan’s ambivalence toward Mr. Trump adds another layer of division in a party torn by the billionaire developer’s ascent, placing him at odds with his fellow Wisconsinite, Reince Priebus, the party chairman, who pronounced Mr. Trump the presumptive nominee and said Republicans should fall in line. Mr. Priebus was not aware Mr. Ryan was going to make the statement, his spokesman, Sean Spicer, told CNN.Although Mr. Ryan said he had expected the race to run at least a few more weeks, he had spent the last day honing his position, aides said, even as others, like Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the majority leader, voiced unequivocal if not effusive support for Mr. Trump. While Mr. Ryan’s defiance put him in line with a number of other prominent Republicans, Mr. Trump has defied convention throughout the campaign, so the long-term effect was at best uncertain.In a campaign that has delivered a daily dose of head-shaking moments of awe, Mr. Trump on Thursday continued the trend, in a manner that made some Republicans cringe. In honor of Cinco de Mayo, Mr. Trump posted a photo on Twitter of himself digging into a taco bowl — made in the Trump Tower food court, of course — and included in the caption “I love Hispanics.”A party nominee has never failed to gain the support of a House speaker or majority leader from his party in modern times. In 1896, Speaker Thomas Brackett Reed ran against William McKinley and made it be known he would not serve as vice president, but ended up backing the nominee.In 1964, Senator Barry Goldwater had to wait a bit uncomfortably for the endorsement of Senator Everett Dirksen of Illinois, but Mr. Dirksen gave it and thus ended the stop-Goldwater movement.While Mr. Ryan’s remarks caught Republicans off guard, it also gave them essentially a permission slip to go their own way on Mr. Trump’s candidacy. Had Mr. Ryan issued a forceful endorsement, it would have put pressure on fellow House Republicans to follow his lead, a step many have been unwilling to take.“I’m not there right now,” Mr. Ryan said. “And I hope to, though, and I want to. But I think what is required is that we unify the party, and I think the bulk of the burden on unifying the party will have to come from our presumptive nominee.”Mr. Trump, who once said Mr. Ryan would “pay a big price” if he did not support him, knows that the speaker and other opponents did not have great sway over primary voters. But Mr. Ryan, who has helped raise hundreds of thousands of dollars for Republicans, may well be a more notable voice in a general election.Outside of Mr. Trump’s remarks about Muslims, Hispanic immigrants, women and other groups — which Mr. Ryan has at times gone out of his way to denounce — his policy positions on many major issues, notably trade and entitlements, stand in stark contrast with Mr. Ryan’s.Mr. Ryan has been signaling a willingness to carve out some terrain to differentiate himself by insisting that House Republicans write their own policy agenda this year, and he has left bread crumbs of ambivalence for months by giving speeches that at times criticized Mr. Trump’s views.After Mr. Trump proposed a temporary ban on Muslims entering the United States, Mr. Ryan strongly disagreed. “This is not conservatism,” Mr. Ryan said in December. “What was proposed yesterday is not what this party stands for, and more important, it’s not what this country stands for.”He also criticized Mr. Trump for declining to distance himself from the former Ku Klux Klan leader David Duke. “If a person wants to be the nominee of the Republican Party, there can be no evasion and no games,” Mr. Ryan told reporters in early March.“This is fundamental,” Mr. Ryan added at the time. “And if someone wants to be our nominee, they must understand this. I hope this is the last time I need to speak out on this race.”While saying Thursday that “I don’t want to underplay” what Mr. Trump accomplished, Mr. Ryan picked up on those earlier themes, adding, “We hope that our nominee aspires to be Lincoln and Reaganesque,” someone who “appeals to a wide, vast majority of Americans.”Mr. Trump is expected to be a drag on some Republican candidates running for the House and Senate this November, given his intense unpopularity with key voting groups, including women, Hispanics and voters with college degrees.Even before Mr. Ryan spoke out, Mr. Trump was confronting the prospect of crippling defections within the Republican elite. Both George Bush and George W. Bush, the only two living former Republican presidents, announced on Wednesday that they would not back his candidacy.Mike Shields, president of the American Action Network, a conservative outside spending group, said Mr. Ryan had effectively cleared the way for others in the party to decide for themselves how to handle Mr. Trump. Mr. Shields said that with Mr. Ryan as an example, many candidates could cleave to a message and an issue agenda distinct from Mr. Trump’s.“This is something that every Republican can say at the local level,” Mr. Shields said. “It’s great leadership on Paul Ryan’s part, because it puts them in a place where all these other members can turn around and say the same thing, which is, ‘Look, there are some things that we’ve got to stand for.’ ”In exit polls, big chunks of the Republican electorate said they remained deeply wary of Mr. Trump. In Indiana, the state where he effectively locked up the Republican nomination, about a quarter of Republican voters said they would be scared to see him as the president.Mr. Ryan alluded Thursday to the broad stakes for his party. “I just think you always run like everything is on the line. My focus this fall is, has been and will be the House majority,” Mr. Ryan said. He added, “But I also really love this country, and I want to see us win this election.”