How to Solve the Swing-State PuzzleSept. 18, 2012When I first considered Barack Obama’s re-election chances in this magazine, last November, he was about a 50-50 contender against the Republican field. As I noted then, this was an unusual spot for a sitting president. A year before their own re-election races, Roosevelt, Eisenhower, Nixon, Reagan, Clinton and both Bushes were all favored. One year out, it seemed as if things could break either way for the president in 2012.Six weeks before the election, the picture is much clearer. While Obama’s postconvention bounce gave him a lead of four to five points over Mitt Romney, most of the polls before the conventions had the vote split by two or three percentage points. If Obama’s bounce fades and the two-to-three-point trend holds till Nov. 6, it’s conceivable that either candidate could pull a George W. Bush and win the Electoral College despite losing the popular vote. This puts the emphasis on what I call “tipping point” states. Obama and Romney can hope for good jobs numbers or terrible ones, and for calm in the Middle East or an eruption that hurts the administration. But one thing they can definitely control is how to allocate their resources­ for the best chance at 270 electoral votes.Using my FiveThirtyEight model, I’ve determined — through about 25,000 simulations that I run each day — which states could put either candidate over the top. Crucially, the model takes into account not only how states poll relative to national trends but also to one another. Demographically similar states can rise and fall together. If Romney makes gains in Wisconsin, for example, he will probably also do so in neighboring Minnesota.Perhaps more important, the program evaluates the order in which the states might line up. Obama could win North Carolina, where the polls show a competitive race, but he’s unlikely to do so without already having won Ohio, Florida and Virginia, where the demographics are slightly more favorable to him. Some combination of those states would probably get him to 270 electoral votes anyway. By that point, North Carolina would be redundant.Which states, then, are the most strategically important? The answer exists along a spectrum rather than in absolutes. Ten states could play an important role in the electoral calculus. I have listed them below, in four groups, along with the chance that each state will be the one that determines the next president.The Big Two: Ohio (32 percent chance of determining the Electoral College winner) and Florida (20 percent).This year, Obama’s polling has been stronger than many observers (myself included) expected in each state, both of which typically lean slightly Republican. In Ohio, which Obama won by 5 points in 2008, the president has held the lead in 16 polls conducted since June (Romney led in only 4). In Florida, which Obama won by 3 points in the last election, the numbers have been more even but still slightly favor the president (14 leads for Obama, 9 for Romney).The reasons behind Obama’s strong polling performance differ in each state. The auto industry’s recovery has helped drop Ohio’s unemployment rate from 8.6 percent when he took office to 7.2 percent now, making it one state where voters really are better off than they were four years ago. While studies show that national economic conditions figure more heavily into voters’ decisions, a state’s economic climate can matter in cases like this.Florida’s economic recovery has not been as robust, but Obama may be buoyed by long-term demographic factors there. Florida has one of the nation’s largest Hispanic populations, a bloc that in most states swings Democratic. The G.O.P. has long been buffered by Cuban-Americans, a historically right-leaning group, who made up a majority of the state’s Hispanic electorate. Now not only are non-Cuban Hispanics growing in the electorate, but the Cuban population is increasingly divided along generational lines, with younger voters leaning heavily left. If Democrats get 60 percent or more of the Hispanic vote in Florida, this year could mark a significant turning point.The New Breed: Virginia (9 percent), Colorado (9 percent) and Nevada (5 percent).In these states, which Obama carried in 2008 but Kerry and Gore lost, swift demographic changes have become manifest. Obama won Nevada — which now resembles a West Coast state to some degree — by an unexpectedly large margin, 12 percentage points, in 2008. And despite a wretched economy there, he has led in every state poll conducted this year.The polling has been more inconsistent in Colorado and Virginia. If demographic changes favor the president in Colorado, the state’s anti-incumbent spirit — it voted for Bill Clinton as the challenger in 1992 but not as the incumbent in 1996 — does not. (George W. Bush, however, did win Colorado in 2004.)Virginia’s economy is pretty good, but the state has also been a headache for pollsters. Surveys since July have shown everything from an eight-point Obama lead to a five-point advantage for Romney. In the end, Obama might simply conclude that Florida or Ohio — and not Colorado and Virginia — represents his path of least resistance. If the president can win either Florida’s 29 electoral votes, or Ohio’s 18 plus Nevada’s 6, then Romney’s shot at 270 will become vanishingly thin, and it won’t matter how Virginia and Colorado turn out.Primary Purple: Iowa (6 percent) and New Hampshire (3 percent).The voters in Iowa and New Hampshire are almost entirely white and mostly rural — factors that ordinarily favor Republicans. But they are also highly educated, which gives Democrats a chance. Though they don’t pack a lot of electoral muscle (Iowa holds just six electoral votes and New Hampshire just four), it’s worth remembering that if Al Gore had won New Hampshire in 2000, he wouldn’t have even needed Florida.Obama’s polling has been fairly robust in New Hampshire, a state in which Romney may have hurt himself by disavowing the moderate positions that he took as governor of Massachusetts. The few polls conducted in Iowa show a tossup.The Blue Wall: Wisconsin (9 percent), Pennsylvania (5 percent), and Michigan (1 percent).Judging by where the campaigns are allocating their money and time, both are concentrating on slightly Republican-leaning states (Florida) or true bellwethers (Iowa). It’s clear that Romney is playing defense while Obama is on offense — a notion reinforced by the fact that Romney and company have taken an on-again, off-again approach toward slightly Democratic-leaning states like Pennsylvania and Michigan.In Michigan, Romney’s opposition to the auto bailout may be too much of an albatross. In Pennsylvania, though, the issue may be that while the polls are close, they are also hard to move; each party has its respective constituencies, and there may be few true undecided voters left. Obama’s lead in Pennsylvania has often been narrow, but he has nevertheless led by some margin in the state’s last 22 polls.My calculations suggest that, despite Romney’s deficit, the upside of his winning Pennsylvania is so great that he might want to take a chance. It’s Obama’s closest equivalent to a must-win state, and the combination of losing Pennsylvania and Ohio would essentially ensure his defeat. Unfortunately for Romney, it may be too late to adopt that strategy, as Obama has come close to clinching a majority of the state’s electorate in recent surveys.Wisconsin, however, is the state that Romney must contest. The initial excitement over the Republican victory in the gubernatorial recall election seemed, in the view of the polls, unfounded. (The same polls that indicated support for Scott Walker also suggested that a majority of voters want four more years of Obama.) Local polls have narrowed since Romney named Paul Ryan as his running mate, but they still have Obama ahead by around a percentage point. If Romney can’t overtake him in Wisconsin, considering his problems in Ohio and Florida, he’ll leave Obama with too many paths to 270, and himself with too few.If you don’t follow the polls every day, just follow the money. For example, as of Sept. 6, according to National Journal, the campaigns and outside groups spent a combined $330 million on advertising in states carried by George W. Bush in 2000 and 2004. In states that were carried by Democrats in those elections, like Michigan, they’ve spent one-tenth as much. This implies that Obama will get a better result than his party did in those years. On the other hand, the lack of appreciable expenditures in Arizona, Missouri or Georgia, which John McCain carried in 2008, indicates that Obama is not actively trying to expand his map, either.The most plausible range of outcomes runs from Obama losing the election by about two percentage points, slightly better than John Kerry did, to his winning it by perhaps six or seven, slightly worse than his margin from four years ago. Given where the election is being contested, however, the most likely outcome is that Obama wins enough tipping-point states to eke out a victory.