 
2016 As Bernie Sanders looks for two more victories in his late-season charge, Clinton supporters wonder when the pain will end.    Hillary Clinton's campaign is bracing for possible defeats in Oregon and Kentucky, a state she won when she ran for president eight years ago. | Getty Continue to article content Bernie Sanders appears poised to pick up another victory on Tuesday in the Democratic primary in Oregon and is aiming for an upset in Kentucky, a state Hillary Clinton won eight years ago and where she maintains strong institutional roots among Democrats. Such a result would be an embarrassment for Clinton, even if it doesn’t significantly alter her chances of winning the nomination. Clinton’s inability to brush aside Sanders and concentrate on presumptive Republican nominee Donald Trump is increasingly frustrating to her supporters. But Sanders victories are hardly inevitable in either state, and if Clinton were able to win both of them, she would finally put to rest the notion that her fellow Democrats are resistant to her candidacy, even if many seem resigned to having her as their nominee.
Polling in both races has been scant, and neither state allows independent voters to participate in the primary — a significant challenge for Sanders, who has struggled to win primaries that are limited to registered Democrats.
Still, Oregon’s demographics track closely with those of states where Sanders has prevailed. The Vermont senator has dominated Clinton in contests in nearby states with similar features: overwhelmingly white and very liberal with active grass-roots supporters.  “I have certainly been expecting — continue to expect — her to lose,” the chief strategist for one of the state’s top elected Democrats backing Clinton said. “I would have told you that I thought she was going to lose very badly. I still think she’ll lose badly.” The strategist added that Oregon is “prime territory for Bernie demographically, all white. He’s been drawing big crowds of young people and all that.” A recently released Oregon Public Broadcasting poll showed Clinton beating Sanders by 15 percentage points — though that could easily be an outlier. The poll came out the same week that Clinton was endorsed by former Oregon Govs. Barbara Roberts and Ted Kulongoski. And Clinton, with her near-universal name recognition and strong institutional support, has often polled ahead of Sanders in states that he’s gone on to win. Few political observers see Oregon as anything but a challenge for Clinton. She lost the state to then-Sen. Barack Obama in the 2008 Democratic primary by double digits. Neither candidate has spent a lot of time in the state, but Sanders has held four public campaign events while Clinton has had just two. Democrats argue that Oregon’s three-week vote-by-mail system helps an enthusiastic grass-roots campaign like Sanders’, because activists can follow up with voters who haven’t cast their ballot yet.
Sanders has strong support among grass-roots activists in the state. As early as August 2015, Sanders attracted a crowd of 28,000 in Portland.  High turnout is crucial for Sanders, as well. Almost 2.3 million voters have registered to cast ballots in the primary this year, a state record. An analysis by The Oregonian newspaper found that registered voters ages 18 to 29 increased by 21 percent since September, another good sign for Sanders, who’s campaign has been buoyed by young voters. That’s the only age group that saw an increase in the double digits, the analysis found. The Oregon secretary of state’s office also said that almost 130,000 voters switched their party affiliation this year, the majority of them switching to the Democrats, another good sign for Sanders, who benefits when voters who don’t usually participate in Democratic primary contests vote.  “What I have found out about this campaign is that when the voter turnout is high, we do well. We win,” Sanders said during a campaign event in Salem, Oregon last week. “Next Tuesday, here in Oregon let us have the highest voter turnout in Oregon Democratic primary history.” Kentucky looks to be a stronger state for Clinton. The percentage of African Americans — perhaps her most loyal voting bloc — is in the high single digits. The former secretary of state handily defeated Obama eight years ago 65 percent to 29 percent, winning all but two counties. Top Kentucky Democrats have close connections to the Clintons and the former secretary campaigned aggressively for Secretary of State Alison Lundergan Grimes when she challenged Sen. Mitch McConnell, now the majority leader. In the lead-up to the primary, Clinton has been far more aggressive than Sanders. She has held 16 campaign events there to Sanders’ four.  “The last Democratic presidential nominee or president to win in Kentucky was President Bill Clinton — President Clinton won here in 1992 and 1996 and part of that is [the] amount of time the Clintons spent talking to the voters, listening to the voters, sharing their vision for the future,” said former Kentucky Democratic chairwoman Jennifer Moore, who now runs Emerge Kentucky, which aims to bring more women to run for office in the state. “In 2008, Secretary Clinton spent an enormous amount of time in the state and she won overwhelmingly in the primary against President Obama. Kentucky is definitely Clinton territory.”  Things haven’t gone perfectly for the former secretary of state in Kentucky, though. Some top Democrats see parallels to West Virginia, which Clinton won decisively in 2008 but lost a week ago, thanks in part to attack ads dinging the former secretary for saying at a town hall in Ohio that “we’re going to put a lot of coal miners and coal companies out of business.”  “Hillary crushed Obama in ’08 [in West Virginia] and Bernie pretty soundly beat Hillary [there last] this week," said Jonathan Miller, a former Democratic Kentucky state treasurer. “So that’s an indication that she’s certainly got a much tougher hill to climb than she did before and that’s related to the coal issue.” Bill Clinton was confronted by a group of coal miners booing him during a campaign event on Thursday in Prestonburg, Kentucky. The boos were so loud they competed with the cheering from the crowd as the former president stepped to the podium. “The Hillary gaffe certainly has got a ton of mileage,” said Miller, who supports Clinton. “Attacking coal is like attacking our culture and it’s part of a whole centuries-old theme of outsiders coming in and trying to tell us what to do.”  On Sunday, Clinton moved to reassure voters paying close attention to her comments on coal miners. “We can’t and we must not walk away from them,” Clinton said during a campaign stop in Fort Mitchell, Kentucky. “I feel such a sense of obligation.” In the past week the Clinton campaign has aggressively moved to prevent any hemorrhaging of support in Kentucky. Thirteen of the Clinton campaign events in Kentucky featuring the candidate or her husband have been in the past 10 days and the campaign spent $180,000 on a last-minute ad boost for the final week before the primary. “Kentucky is definitely Clinton territory,” Moore said. “And they are back here, they are not taking the state for granted.” 