The tributes paid since his death was announced on Saturday have confirmed that for more than half a century Muhammad Ali was many things to many people in many lands. But if there was one quality that ran through his life like an unbroken thread, it was his bravery.Bravery is one of those ancient virtues that we confer as accolades too easily in the celebrity age. Bravery can be foolhardy as well as exemplary. The word is especially ambiguous in a sport as tawdry, crooked and harmful as professional boxing was then and still is. Perhaps there were moments in Ali’s life when he was less than great. But it is hard to think of a moment when he was ever less than brave.He was certainly extraordinarily brave in the ring. When he first became world heavyweight champion, he was cocky Cassius Clay, the Louisville Lip, a slim ex-light-heavyweight whose encounter with the reigning champion Sonny Liston in 1964 looked to many like a match of a bumptious boy against a murderous man. But Clay refused to walk into Liston’s trademark piledriving hooks. Instead he danced, taunted, confused and exhausted one of sport’s most chilling figures with his jabs. After six rounds, Liston was completely spent.Ten years later, when Ali regained the title in Kinshasa, the bravery in the ring was, if anything, greater. The George Foreman of 1974 was not the gracious elder statesman he has now become and was again on the news of Ali’s death. He was the most brutal puncher to hold the title since Liston. But Ali was brave enough to get into the ring with a plan. His rope-a-dope defensive tactics in Zaire – Ali called it a “real thinkin’ fight” – have gone into sports history. And if a punch to a man’s head can ever be beautiful, then the one with which he knocked out Foreman, with Ali seemingly pausing to admire the succinctness of a blow that would guarantee his legend for evermore, perhaps deserves that description.Yet if Ali was conspicuously brave in the ring, this was transcended by the political bravery which made millions the world over, black people above all, see him as a unique hero. Ali became champion at the height of the civil rights era. Unlike so many other top black fighters, he never hesitated to identify with that epic struggle. That in itself took courage. Many whites hated him for it. But his refusal to fight in Vietnam went further still, fusing the fight against the two great crimes of 1960s America. Young black men were being disproportionately drafted to fight in Vietnam. Ali’s refusal, eloquently expressed as ever, was an explosive act of defiance. For such a man to make that stand on that issue in that place at that time was an act of real heroism. It is why, above all, he means so much.Perhaps, though, Ali’s greatest act of personal bravery was still to come. When he contracted Parkinson’s disease, he never hid the fact. Ali certainly knew, and perhaps we also knew too, that he was paying the bodily price for his and the world’s overeager embrace of his earlier triumphs in the ring. He didn’t go into hiding during the long years of decline. Instead he appeared as often as he could, bearing increasingly fragile and tragic witness not just to what boxing had done to him but also to his own indomitable humanity as a stricken warrior. That took as much courage as anything else he ever did.