 The Democratic National Convention Hillary Clinton, the Democratic Party's presidential nominee, takes the stage before giving a speech Thursday at the Democratic National Convention in Philadelphia. The Democratic National Convention Clinton walks on stage with her running mate, U.S. Sen. Tim Kaine. The Democratic National Convention Balloons fall from the ceiling of the Wells Fargo Center after Clinton's speech. The Democratic National Convention Clinton arrives for her speech. The Democratic National Convention During her speech, Clinton ripped into Republican nominee Donald Trump for his convention pitch "I alone can fix it." She said: "He's forgetting every last one of us. Americans don't say: 'I alone can fix it.' We say: 'We'll fix it together.' " The Democratic National Convention Clinton acknowledges the crowd before her speech. The Democratic National Convention Clinton's husband, former U.S. President Bill Clinton, applauds along with their daughter, Chelsea. The Democratic National Convention Clinton is the first woman in U.S. history to lead the presidential ticket of a major political party. "It's true," she said in her speech, "I sweat the details of policy -- whether we're talking about the exact level of lead in the drinking water in Flint, Michigan; the number of mental health facilities in Iowa; or the cost of your prescription drugs. ... Because it's not just a detail if it's your kid, if it's your family. It's a big deal. And it should be a big deal to your President." The Democratic National Convention Clinton gives a thumbs-up to the crowd. The Democratic National Convention Clinton embraces her daughter before speaking. The Democratic National Convention Bill Clinton becomes emotional Thursday as he listens to Chelsea introduce her mother. The Democratic National Convention Chelsea Clinton said her mother is a "listener and a doer, a woman driven by compassion, by faith, by kindness, a fierce sense of justice, and a heart full of love." The Democratic National Convention Singer Katy Perry performs "Rise" on Thursday. The Democratic National Convention Khizr Khan holds his personal copy of the U.S. Constitution as he speaks Thursday. His son, Humayun S. M. Khan, was one of the 14 American Muslims who have died serving their country since 9/11. In his remarks, Khan criticized the Republican nominee: "If it was up to Donald Trump, (my son) never would have been in America. ... Donald Trump, you are asking Americans to trust you with our future. Let me ask you: Have you even read the U.S. Constitution? I will gladly lend you my copy." The Democratic National Convention Basketball legend Kareem Abdul-Jabbar talks at the convention on Thursday. The Democratic National Convention House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi speaks to the crowd at the Wells Fargo Center. The Democratic National Convention Delegates cheer on Thursday. The Democratic National Convention LGBT rights activist Sarah McBride takes the stage. The Democratic National Convention Delegates hold up signs in support of presidential nominee Hillary Clinton. The Democratic National Convention Clinton and U.S. President Barack Obama wave to the crowd Wednesday after Obama gave a speech. The Democratic National Convention Obama and Clinton hug after Obama's speech. The Democratic National Convention Obama and Clinton acknowledge the crowd. The Democratic National Convention Clinton points to Obama as she walks on stage after his speech. The Democratic National Convention Delegates stand as Obama speaks. The Democratic National Convention "This year, in this election, I'm asking you to join me -- to reject cynicism, reject fear, to summon what's best in us; to elect Hillary Clinton as the next President of the United States, and show the world we still believe in the promise of this great nation," Obama said. The Democratic National Convention Obama told the crowd at the Wells Fargo Center that he is "more optimistic about the future of America than ever before." He contrasted it with the "pessimistic vision" of America he heard during the Republican convention last week. "There were no serious solutions to pressing problems -- just the fanning of resentment, and blame, and anger, and hate," he said. The Democratic National Convention Obama said Clinton is more ready than he was to become President. "For four years, I had a front-row seat to her intelligence, her judgment and her discipline," Obama said, referring to her stint as secretary of state. The Democratic National Convention The crowd welcomes Obama. The Democratic National Convention Clinton's running mate, Tim Kaine, waves to the crowd along with his wife, Anne Holton, after giving a speech on Wednesday. The Democratic National Convention During his speech, Kaine said: "Hillary Clinton and I are compañeros del alma. We share this belief: Do all the good you can. And serve one another. Pretty simple. That's what I'm about. That's what you're about. That's what Bernie Sanders is about. That's what Joe Biden is about. That's what Barack and Michelle Obama are about. And that's what Hillary Clinton is about." The Democratic National Convention Delegates hold posters during Kaine's speech. The Democratic National Convention Kaine comes out to the stage on Wednesday. The Democratic National Convention Former U.S. President Bill Clinton, right, cheers during the speech of former New York City Mayor Michael Bloomberg. The Democratic National Convention "I understand the appeal of a businessman President. But Trump's business plan is a disaster in the making," said Bloomberg, an independent. He said the Republican nominee is a "risky, reckless, and radical choice." The Democratic National Convention U.S. Vice President Joe Biden also went after Trump, saying "this guy doesn't have a clue about the middle class -- not a clue. Actually, he has no clue, period." The Democratic National Convention Biden walks to the podium before delivering his speech. The Democratic National Convention A delegate wears a Bernie Sanders mask on Wednesday. Sanders finished second to Clinton in the presidential primaries. The Democratic National Convention Broadway performers sing "What the World Needs Now Is Love" on Wednesday. The Democratic National Convention Former U.S. Rep. Gabby Giffords waves to the audience before speaking on Wednesday. The Democratic National Convention People hold up prints that pay respect to those who were killed in the Charleston, South Carolina, church shooting of June 2015. Two survivors of the shooting were speaking to the crowd. The Democratic National Convention A delegate wears stickers in support of Clinton. The Democratic National Convention Senate Minority Leader Harry Reid is escorted to the podium by his wife, Landra, on Wednesday. The Democratic National Convention Clinton appears live on a video screen Tuesday night. Just a few hours earlier, she officially became the party's presidential nominee. She is the first woman to lead a major party's presidential ticket. "I can't believe we just put the biggest crack in that glass ceiling yet," she told the crowd. The Democratic National Convention Actress Meryl Streep addresses the crowd before Clinton's video message. Streep said Clinton will be the first female President of the United States, "but she won't be the last." The Democratic National Convention Former U.S. President Bill Clinton waves to the crowd before giving a speech on Tuesday. The Democratic National Convention The former President told the crowd about how he met his wife for the first time. He also called her "the best damn change-maker I've ever met in my entire life." The Democratic National Convention Bill Clinton arrives on stage to give his speech. In his speech, he portrayed his wife as a woman who tirelessly ran a family and a career. "She always wants to move the ball forward," he said. "That is just who she is." The Democratic National Convention Former U.S. secretary of state Madeleine Albright waves to the crowd after speaking on Tuesday. The Democratic National Convention Former Vermont Gov. Howard Dean re-enacts his infamous "Dean Scream" during his speech. The Democratic National Convention Actresses America Ferrera, right, and Lena Dunham walk on stage to deliver remarks. The Democratic National Convention Florida delegate Bernard Jennings holds a cardboard cutout of Hillary Clinton over the face of his young son Ethan on Tuesday. The Democratic National Convention "Mothers of the Movement" -- mothers whose unarmed children have been killed by law enforcement or due to gun violence -- take the stage Tuesday. The Democratic National Convention Actress Elizabeth Banks walks onto the stage Tuesday. The Democratic National Convention U.S. Sen. Bernie Sanders waves to the crowd after the Vermont delegation cast its roll-call votes Tuesday. The Democratic National Convention Sanders smiles while attending roll call. He moved to name Clinton the official nominee. The Democratic National Convention The crowd cheers after Clinton was formally nominated. The Democratic National Convention A delegate cries during the roll-call vote Tuesday. The Democratic National Convention A staff member tallies Alabama's votes during roll call on Tuesday. The Democratic National Convention Delegates hold up signs referring to Indiana Gov. Mike Pence, the running mate of Republican nominee Donald Trump. The Democratic National Convention Sanders delivers the headline speech on Monday. "I understand that many people here in this convention hall and around the country are disappointed about the final results of the nominating process," Sanders said. "I think it's fair to say that no one is more disappointed than I am. But to all of our supporters -- here and around the country -- I hope you take enormous pride in the historical accomplishments we have achieved." The Democratic National Convention Sanders spoke out against Republican nominee Donald Trump and said Clinton must become President. "If you don't believe this election is important, if you think you can sit it out, take a moment to think about the Supreme Court justices that Donald Trump would nominate and what that would mean to civil liberties, equal rights and the future of our country," Sanders said. The Democratic National Convention Sanders acknowledges the crowd at the Wells Fargo Center. The Democratic National Convention U.S. Sen. Elizabeth Warren talks to the crowd in Philadelphia. "We are not going to be Donald Trump's hate-filled America," she said. "Not now. Not ever." The Democratic National Convention First lady Michelle Obama gives a speech. "This election -- every election -- is about who will have the power to shape our children for the next four or eight years of our lives," she said. "And I am here tonight because in this election, there is only one person who I trust with that responsibility -- only one person who I believe is truly qualified to be President of the United States. And that is our friend, Hillary Clinton." The Democratic National Convention Obama waves to the crowd. The Democratic National Convention In his speech Monday, U.S. Sen. Cory Booker included a message about togetherness. "Patriotism is love of country. But you can't love your country without loving your countrymen and countrywomen," he said. The Democratic National Convention Singer Paul Simon performs "Bridge Over Troubled Water." The Democratic National Convention Delegates hold up signs Monday. The Democratic National Convention U.S. Sen. Al Franken appears on stage with comedian Sarah Silverman. Franken, of course, has a comedic background as well, having once starred on "Saturday Night Live." The Democratic National Convention Anastasia Somoza, an advocate for people with disabilities, comes out to speak. The Democratic National Convention Former pro basketball players Jason Collins, left, and Jarron Collins wave to the crowd. Jason Collins, the first openly gay player in the NBA, said he told the Clintons about his sexual orientation before coming out publicly. The Democratic National Convention A delegate wears a pin showing her support of Clinton. The Democratic National Convention Delegates hold signs reading "Love trumps hate" on Monday. The Democratic National Convention A delegate supports Sanders at the convention. The Democratic National Convention Tape on a delegate's mouth makes a statement Monday about the Democratic National Committee. Recently leaked committee emails appeared to show favoritism toward Clinton in the primary race, and many Sanders supporters entered the convention upset. The controversy has caused Debbie Wasserman Schultz to step down as the committee's chairwoman at the end of the convention. The Democratic National Convention Members of the media stand during the event.