                                  Updated on: August 24, 2016 / 9:08 PM      / CBS/AP               AMATRICE, Italy - Rescue crews using bulldozers and their
bare hands raced to dig out survivors from a strong earthquake that reduced three central Italian towns to rubble
Wednesday. The death toll stood at 159, but the number of dead and missing was
uncertain given the thousands of vacationers in the area for summer’s final
days.                             Deadly Italy earthquake      04:40                                      Residents wakened before dawn by the temblor emerged from
their crumbled homes to find what they described as apocalyptic scenes
“like Dante’s Inferno,” with entire blocks of buildings turned into
piles of sand and rock, thick dust choking the air and a putrid smell of gas.   “The town isn’t here anymore,” said Sergio
Pirozzi, the mayor of the hardest-hit town, Amatrice. “I believe the toll
will rise.”The frantic search for signs of life
continued through they day as dazed residents tried to grasp the scale of the
disaster, reports CBS News correspondent Seth Doane. Mostly, what was pulled from the
rubble was grim. But there was good news, including an 80-year-old woman who
was trapped and ultimately freed.                                                               Powerful quake strikes central Italy            32 photos                                                 Dozens of others were pulled out alive by rescue teams
and volunteers that poured in from around Italy.In the evening, about 17 hours after the quake struck,
firefighters pulled a 10-year-old girl alive from the rubble in Pescara del
Tronto.                             Earthquake strikes Italy      02:20                                      “You can hear something under here. Quiet,
quiet,” one rescue worker said, before soon urging her on: “Come on,
Giulia, come on, Giulia. ... Watch your head.”   Cheers broke out when she was pulled out.And there were wails when bodies emerged.“Unfortunately, 90 percent we pull out are dead, but
some make it, that’s why we are here,” said Christian Bianchetti, a
volunteer from Rieti who was working in devastated Amatrice where flood lights
were set up so the rescue could continue through the night.The magnitude 6.2 quake struck at 3:36 a.m. and was felt
across a broad swath of central Italy, including Rome, where residents woke to
a long swaying followed by aftershocks. The temblor shook the Lazio region and
Umbria and Le Marche on the Adriatic coast, a highly seismic area that has
witnessed major quakes in the past.                             Earthquake destroys homes      00:52                                      Premier Matteo Renzi visited the zone Wednesday, greeted
rescue teams and survivors, and pledged that “No family, no city, no
hamlet will be left behind.” Italy’s civil protection agency reported the
death toll had risen to 159 by late Wednesday; at least 368 others were
injured.Worst affected were the tiny towns of Amatrice and
Accumoli near Rieti, some 60 miles northeast of Rome, and Pescara del Tronto,
some 25 kilometers further east. Italy’s civil protection agency set up tent
cities around each hamlet to accommodate the thousands of homeless.Italy’s health minister, Beatrice Lorenzin, visiting the
devastated area, said many of the victims were children: The quake zone is a
popular spot for Romans with second homes, and the population swells in August
when most Italians take their summer holiday before school resumes.     
The medieval center of Amatrice was devastated, with the
hardest-hit half of the city cut off by rescue crews digging by hand to get to
trapped residents.                                                               Powerful quake strikes central Italy            32 photos                                                 The birthplace of the famed spaghetti all’amatriciana
bacon and tomato sauce, the city was full for this weekend’s planned festival
honoring its native dish. Some 70 guests filled its top Hotel Roma, famed for
its amatriciana, where five bodies were pulled from the rubble before the
operation was suspended when conditions became too dangerous late Wednesday.
Among those killed was an 11-year-old boy who had initially shown signs of
life. The fate of the dozens of other guests wasn’t immediately known.                             Italy earthquake aftermath      00:40                                      Amatrice is made up of 69 hamlets that teams from around
Italy were working to reach with sniffer dogs, earth movers and other heavy
equipment. In the city center, rocks and metal tumbled onto the streets and
dazed residents huddled in piazzas as more than 200 aftershocks jolted the
region throughout the day, some as strong as magnitude 5.1.“The whole ceiling fell but did not hit me,”
marveled resident Maria Gianni. “I just managed to put a pillow on my head
and I wasn’t hit, luckily, just slightly injured my leg.”Another woman, sitting in front of her destroyed home
with a blanket over her shoulders, said she didn’t know what had become of her
loved ones.                             Crews search for survivors      05:39                                      “It was one of the most beautiful towns of Italy and
now there’s nothing left,” she said, too distraught to give her name.
“I don’t know what we’ll do.”As the August sun turned into a nighttime chill,
residents, civil protection workers and even priests dug with shovels,
bulldozers and their bare hands to reach survivors. A steady column of dump
trucks brought tons of twisted metal, rock and cement down the hill and onto
the highway toward Rome, along with a handful of ambulances bringing the
injured to Rome hospitals.     
“We need chain saws, shears to cut iron bars and
jacks to remove beams. Everything, we need everything,” civil protection
worker Andrea Gentili told The Associated Press in the early hours of the
recovery. Italy’s national blood drive association appealed for donations to
Rieti’s hospital.                                                               Powerful quake strikes central Italy            32 photos                                                 Despite a massive rescue and relief effort - with army,
Alpine crews, carabineri, firefighters, Red Cross crews and volunteers, it
wasn’t enough: A few miles north of Amatrice, in Illica, residents complained
that rescue workers were slow to arrive and that loved ones were trapped.                             Aftermath of earthquake      01:03                                      “We are waiting for the military,” said
resident Alessandra Cappellanti. “There is a base in Ascoli, one in Rieti,
and in L’Aquila. And we have not seen a single soldier. We pay! It’s
disgusting!”Agostino Severo, a Rome resident visiting Illica, said
workers eventually arrived after an hour or so. “We came out to the
piazza, and it looked like Dante’s Inferno,” he said. “People crying
for help, help.”The U.S. Geological Survey reported the quake’s magnitude
was 6.2, while the Italian geological service put it at 6 and the European
Mediterranean Seismological Center at 6.1. The quake had a shallow depth of
between four and 10 kilometers, the agencies said. Generally, shallow earthquakes pack a bigger punch and tend
to be more damaging than deeper quakes.                             Rescue crews in Italy      01:14                                      “The Apennine mountains in central Italy have the
highest seismic hazard in Western Europe and earthquakes of this magnitude are common,” noted Richard
Walters, a lecturer in Earth sciences at Durham University in Britain.The devastation harked back to the 2009 quake that killed
more than 300 people in and around L’Aquila, about 55 miles south of the latest
quake. The town, which still hasn’t fully recovered, sent emergency teams
Wednesday to help with the rescue and set up tent camps for residents unwilling
to stay indoors because of aftershocks.     
“I don’t know what to say. We are living this
immense tragedy,” said a tearful Rev. Savino D’Amelio, a parish priest in
Amatrice. “We are only hoping there will be the least number of victims
possible and that we all have the courage to move on.”                                                               Powerful quake strikes central Italy            32 photos                                                 Another hard-hit town was Pescara del Tronto, in the Le
Marche region, where the main road was covered in debris.Residents were digging their neighbors out by hand before
emergency crews arrived. Aerial photos taken by regional firefighters showed
the town essentially flattened and under a thick gray coat of dust; Italy
requested EU satellite images of the whole area to get the scope of the damage.                             Rescue crews survey damage      00:52                                      “There are broken liquor bottles all over the
place,” said Gino Petrucci, owner of a bar in nearby Arquata Del Tronto
where he was beginning the long cleanup.One rescue was particularly delicate as a ranger in
Capodacqua, in the Marche province of Ascoli Piceno, diplomatically tried to
keep an 80-year-old woman calm as she begged to get to a toilet, even though
she was trapped in the rubble.“Listen, I know it’s not nice to say but if you need
to pee you just do it,” he said. “Now I move away a little bit and
you do pee, please.”The mayor of Accumoli, Stefano Petrucci, said a family of
four had died there, one of the few young families who had decided to stay in
the area. He wept as he noted that the tiny hamlet of 700 swells to 2,000 in
the summer months, and that he feared for the future of the town.     
“I hope they don’t forget us,” he told Sky
TG24.President Barack Obama, speaking by telephone to Italian
President Sergio Mattarella, said the U.S. sent its thoughts and prayers to the
quake victims and saluted the “quick action” by first responders,
White House spokesman Josh Earnest said.A 1997 quake killed a dozen people in central Italy and
severely damaged one of the jewels of Umbria, the Basilica of St. Francis in
Assisi, filled with Giotto frescoes. The Franciscan friars who are the
custodians of the basilica reported no immediate damage from Wednesday’s
temblor.Pope Francis skipped his traditional catechism for his
Wednesday general audience and instead invited the thousands of pilgrims in St.
Peter’s Square to recite the rosary with him. He also sent a six-man squad from
the Vatican’s fire department to help with the rescue.                              Download our Free App    For Breaking News & Analysis Download the Free CBS News app      