So Donald Trump is going south of the border on Wednesday, hours before he is scheduled to give his "major" speech on how he will take on illegal immigration. At least that's what Mexican President Enrique Peña Nieto said.It's hard to foresee what could come of the meeting between Mexico's head of state and the GOP presidential nominee. Peña Nieto has compared Trump to dictators Adolf Hitler and Benito Mussolini. He told CNN he couldn't — and wouldn't — pay for the wall Trump so often promises to have built.Already, Trump's decision to head down to Mexico is asubject of ridicule on Twitter. Like many trends online, the feed is full of comical, smug and downright cruel comments, but many of them allude to insults Trump has hurled at Mexicans since he started his campaign.How has Trump insulted Mexico? Let us count the ways.When he announced his candidacy for president:Unlike most candidates' first speeches, Trump's was pretty telling. He touted his background as a real estate mogul, but he also launched right into what would become his major selling point among conservatives: illegal immigration. And, it seemed, he took the first step toward winning over those right-wing voters, at the cost of alienating American voters of Mexican descent and their diverse group of allies."When Mexico sends its people, they're not sending their best ... They're bringing drugs. They're bringing crime. They're rapists. And some, I assume, are good people. But I speak to border guards, and they tell us what we're getting. And it only makes common sense. It only makes common sense."They're sending us not the right people. It's coming from more than Mexico. It's coming from all over South and Latin America, and it's coming probably from the Middle East, but we don't know because we have no protection and we have no competence. We don't know what's happening. And it's gotta stop. And it's gotta stop fast."When he attacked Jeb Bush over his Mexican-born wife:Less than a month into his presidential campaign, Trump tweeted an insult aimed at then-GOP presidential hopeful Jeb Bush, suggesting he must be sympathetic to undocumented immigrants since his wife, Columba, is from Mexico.The tweet was deleted, but just like diamonds, screenshots are forever.When he suggested Mexico is sending criminals on purpose:During a debate in August 2015 in Cleveland, Fox News' Chris Wallace asked Trump to respond to his controversial comments on Mexicans. Trump said U.S. Border Patrol agents told him Mexico is sending its criminals on purpose and taking advantage of America's government."They say this is what's happening because our leaders are stupid, our politicians are stupid, and the Mexican government is much smarter, much sharper, much more cunning," he said. "They send the bad ones over because they don't want to pay for them, they don't want to take care of them. Why should they, when the stupid leaders of the United States will do it for me?"When he said all undocumented immigrants 'have to go':In August 2015, Trump told NBC's Chuck Todd on Meet The Press, "We're going to keep the families together, but they have to go."When asked about undocumented immigrants who had nowhere to go home to, Trump said again "they have to go."When he said Mexico has to pay for the wall:During the same interview with Todd, Trump said, "I'm a huge fan of the Mexican people. I have thousands of Mexican people working for me right now and have over the years. But they have to pay for the wall. And we need the wall.''Fact check: Donald Trump’s immigration planWhen he thought he could win over Hispanics with a Cinco de Mayo tweet:When he criticized federal judge of Mexican descent:In May 2016, Trump called out the judge presiding over a class-action lawsuit against his Trump University operations."I happen to have a judge who is a hater of Donald Trump. A hater ... I have had horrible rulings, I have been treated unfairly by this judge. Now this judge is of Mexican heritage, I'm building a wall.""He's a member of a society, where you know, very pro-Mexico and that's fine, it's all fine," Trump continued. "But I think he could recuse himself."Trump judge 'a Hoosier and an American'The judge in question is Gonzalo Curiel, an East Chicago native of Mexican descent. Curiel is a law graduate from Indiana University who became a federal prosecutor in California who successfully prosecuted members of a Mexican drug cartel who wanted to have him killed.So why did Trump call Curiel a pro-Mexican hater? Because Curiel ordered the release of the documents from the class-action lawsuit against Trump University in California, following a request by The Washington Post. Those documents shed light on the operations of the university, including strategies targeting students with the most liquid assets and promoting the most expensive course offerings.For the Record: Bienvenidos, Sr. Trump