Questions lingered Sunday morning after a large blast from what authorities believe was a homemade bomb injured 29 people in the Chelsea neighborhood of Manhattan Saturday night, while a second unexploded device was found just blocks away.The explosion took place around 8:30 P.M. in or around a dumpster on 23rd Street between 6th and 7th Avenues, officials said. Video from the scene shows panicked New Yorkers running from the blast, which sent shrapnel flying and shattered car windows. In a news conference shortly after, New York City mayor Bill de Blasio said that the explosion was “an intentional act,” but stopped short of saying it was related to terrorism. A second suspected explosive device was also found, several blocks away, and was later removed by a NYPD bomb squad. Police cautioned people to stay away from windows near the site of the second device, which appeared to be a pressure cooker like the one used in the Boston Marathon bombing, until the area was cleared.No individual or group has taken responsibility, and it remains unknown what the motive may have been behind the two incidents. According to one anonymous law enforcement official who spoke to The New York Times, “we don’t understand the target or the significance of it. It’s by a pile of dumpsters on a random sidewalk.”Authorities have said there had been no credible or specific threats against the city of New York, which recently commemorated the 9/11 attacks but has not experienced any terrorists incidents like those that have plagued other Western cities in the past year. In a press conference Sunday morning, New York governor Andrew Cuomo said that authorities have no found any connection to the explosion of a small pipe bomb in Seaside, New Jersey earlier on Saturday, near the site of a charity 5K race to benefit Marines. The governor also announced the deployment of an additional 1,000 state police and national guardsmen to New York City.The Republican and Democratic presidential candidates both seemed to jump to conclusions about the cause of the blast Saturday night, before officials had made an announcement. Donald Trump, who drew widespread criticism for seemingly congratulating himself for predicting the Orlando nightclub shooting earlier this year, immediately told a rally that he had suspected that a bomb was involved in the explosion. “I must tell you that just before I got off the plane, a bomb went off in New York and nobody knows exactly what’s going on,” he said during a rally in Colorado Springs, long before authorities had released any information about the explosion. “We better get very tough, folks." His Democratic opponent, Hillary Clinton was more reticent, but also referred to “the bombings in New York and New Jersey.” After stating she'd been briefed on the “bombings,” she scolded Trump for jumping to conclusions. “It's important to know the facts about any incident like this," she said. “I think it's always wiser to wait until you have information before making conclusions.”Scenes from the Aftermath of the Brussels Terrorist AttacksBy Sylvain Lefevre/French Select/Getty Images.Evacuating Brussels Airport after two explosions led to a reported 30 deaths.