Opinion|Release the Charlotte Police Videohttps://www.nytimes.com/2016/09/23/opinion/release-the-charlotte-police-video.htmlEditorialSept. 22, 2016Credit...Delcan & CompanyElected officials who have paid any attention to the killings of civilians by the police that have roiled several cities in recent years should understand that keeping the public in the dark heightens tension and undermines trust in law enforcement.The Police Department in Tulsa, Okla., made the right choice earlier this week when it released video of an officer shooting and killing an unarmed black man named Terence Crutcher, who could be seen raising his hands above his head during much of the encounter. On Thursday, the Tulsa County district attorney charged that officer with first-degree manslaughter for Mr. Crutcher’s death.By contrast, the Police Department in Charlotte, N.C., has responded in exactly the wrong way to a police officer’s killing on Tuesday of another black man, Keith Scott. It has opted for stonewalling. The department — which has said that Mr. Scott brandished a gun when he was shot dead — has refused to make public the video that might show how the shooting occurred. Already, the city has suffered through several nights of violent protests by citizens enraged at the death of another black man at the hands of the police.Police Chief Kerr Putney added to that anger at a news conference on Thursday when he said that the video did not give him “absolute, definitive, visual evidence that would confirm that a person is pointing a gun,” though he insisted that there was evidence to suggest that the police account of the event was correct. A Scott family attorney said Thursday that the family was shown the video.There is no legal reason to withhold the video from the public, and in this fraught situation, the best way to allay the community’s distrust is complete transparency. Unfortunately, the city’s mayor, Jennifer Roberts, seems largely at sea and distressingly out of touch with how lack of an open governmental response led to demonstrations in places like Ferguson, Mo., Cleveland and Baltimore. She said Thursday morning that she had not even viewed the video.The folly of stonewalling is well demonstrated in Chicago, where a scandal stemming from the city’s mishandling of a police shooting of a black teenager in 2014 opened wounds that will take years to heal. The city maintained at the outset that Laquan McDonald, 17, was threatening police officers with a knife when they killed him. But when the video was finally made public 13 months later, it showed the young man moving away from the officers when one of them executed him.The scandal has toppled a county prosecutor, discredited city government and further alienated Chicagoans from a Police Department long known for its brutality.Some police departments are starting to understand that public trust depends on good faith and openness. In the Tulsa case, for example, the Police Department committed itself to “full transparency and disclosure.”The North Carolina legislature, however, made that far more difficult when it passed an ill-advised measure this year that allows police departments to withhold camera footage from the public unless a court orders the release.That law takes effect on Oct 1. But until then, the Charlotte Police Department is free to release the video. By continuing to withhold it, the city will deepen distrust and cede the narrative about this shooting to the rumor mill.