Corrections and clarifications: An earlier version of this story misstated the victim's last name. It has since been corrected.CHARLOTTE — One person was shot Wednesday night and four officers were injured as a second round of protests gripped this North Carolina city in the wake of a police-involved shooting of a black man.The City of Charlotte initially tweeted the person had died, but later corrected that the person was on life support.The Wednesday night shooting was "civilian on civilian" and the Charlotte-Mecklenburg Police Department did not fire the shot, the City of Charlotte said via Twitter.Four officers suffered non-life-threatening injuries during the protests Wednesday night, police said on Twitter.The latest violence prompted Gov. Pat McCrory to declare a state of emergency and begin the process toward deploying the National Guard and the state Highway Patrol to assist local police, the governor said via Twitter. The violence that erupted during the demonstrations would not be tolerated, McCrory said during a late Wednesday interview on CNN."I understand concerns and I understand frustration and anger but I will never respect violence," McCrory said. "Violence is unacceptable."The demonstrations also prompted the mayor to issue a call for peace."We are urging people to stay home, to stay off the streets," Mayor Jennifer Roberts told CNN. "Violence is not the answer."The state chapter of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People also condemned the violent protests."We support those who exercise the right to peacefully protest, and encourage the First Amendment right to call for redress of wrongs," the organization said in a statement. "We understand efforts that undermine the legitimate calls for justice with unjust, random or purposeless acts of violence." Charlotte's bus and light rail services halted shortly after midnight, the Charlote Area Transit System said on Twitter.The violence came one day after police shot and killed Keith Lamont Scott, 43, who police say was armed and ignored commands to drop his weapon. Scott's family says the father of seven had a book in his hand. Word of the death stirred up anger in Charlotte and across the country.In regards to the Wednesday night shooting, police responded to a call at about 8:30 p.m. ET Wednesday night and discovered a person with an apparent gunshot wound, police spokeswoman Cindy Wallace said in an email. The person was transported to Carolinas Medical Center, Wallace said.As these details emerged, police in riot gear crowded downtown Charlotte as protesters shouted "hands up, don't shoot," banged against a police van and broke a window of the City Smoke barbecue restaurant and bar. Police set off smoke bombs, which are sometimes used to disperse crowds.Sixteen police officers were wounded in the violence that erupted Tuesday night in this North Carolina hub after word of the shooting spread across the country.Charlotte-Mecklenburg Police Chief Kerr Putney, at a news conference Wednesday, rejected claims Scott was holding a book, not a gun, and said the gun had been recovered by detectives. No book was found, Putney said.Everyone in Keith Lamont Scott's Charlotte neighborhood knew him“It’s time to change the narrative, because I can tell you from the facts that the story’s a little bit different as to how it’s been portrayed so far, especially through social media,” Putney added.As the city tried to cope with the sudden outbreak of anger and violence, students gathered Wednesday afternoon on the campus of the University of North Carolina at Charlotte as part of a silent protest. The campus is about a 20-minute walk from Scott's home.About 200 students gathered at the student union with an already planned administration meeting scheduled, said Justice White of the school's Black Student Union.“We want to focus making others aware of police brutality,” she said. “This happened in our front yard and it’s important that we fight these stereotypes. People think we don’t care as students, that we are off in our own world, and black people are made out to be these thugs, which just isn’t true.”Student protester Katrina Williams is a young African-American woman and big sister to four boys 8-years-old and up. “I fear from my brothers who are younger than me, and the things I’ve gone through, I don’t want them to go through,” she said.In addition to the Marshall Park gathering, special church services were also called at a half dozen places of worship. The Charlotte Chamber of Commerce expressed its condolences to the Scott family, as well as to those injured in the protests, while calling on business owners to be prepared for any new violence. It said businesses should "keep everything as normal as possible," but also take care to remove or chain down all tables, chairs, signs or planters.The shooting took place four days after a Tulsa police officer fatally shot an unarmed black man who was standing outside his vehicle. U.S. Attorney General Loretta Lynch called for calm in both cities and across the nation. Lynch said the Justice Department opened a civil rights probe into the death of Terence Crutcher in Tulsa and was "assessing" Scott's death.Charlotte and Tulsa shootings: What police say vs. the familiesProtests erupt in Charlotte after police kill man; 12 officers hurt“These tragic incidents have once again left Americans with feelings of sorrow, anger and uncertainty,’’ Lynch said. “They have once again highlighted – in the most vivid and painful terms – the real divisions that still persist in this nation between law enforcement and communities of color.’’Gov. Pat McCrory issued a statement pledging support for Putney and Charlotte Mayor Jennifer Roberts in their efforts to "keep the community calm and to get this situation resolved."In Charlotte, Putney said police dashcams recorded parts of the confrontation, and the videos were being reviewed. The African-American officer who shot Scott, identified as Brentley Vinson, was not wearing a body camera, Putney said.The ACLU called on the police department to "promptly" release the videos "in the interest of transparency and accountability." The advocacy group also demanded an explanation for why Vinson was not wearing a body camera.Putney said officers were searching for a suspect with an outstanding warrant Tuesday afternoon at The Village at College Downs when they observed a man — not the person they were looking for — inside a vehicle at the apartment complex.Putney said the man, Scott, exited the vehicle with a gun as officers yelled at him to drop it. Scott ignored the command and was shot by a Vinson, a two-year veteran of the force, Putney said. Vinson was placed on administrative leave pending the investigation."It's a tragic event, and my heart goes out to the Scott family for their loss," Putney said.Several residents at a condominium near the scene of the shooting said the neighborhood, which includes locals and University of North Carolina at Charlotte students, is quiet and safe. Michelle Cooke, a resident, said she learned of the shooting when her 12-year-old daughter came home from school and asked about the police tape and helicopters. “In this climate we’re living in, the job of law enforcement is to protect lives as well as it is to protect themselves. Unnecessary shootings should not take place,” she said. “If he did not point a gun, there is no reason to shoot him. This is why the issue of Black Lives Matter is important.” “For non-marginalized groups, who have not faced oppression, it might be hard to understand why we protest and say that black lives do matter,” Cooke added. Temako McCarthy, whose son LaReko Williams died in 2011 after he was tasered by Charlotte-Mecklenburg Police, arrived at the complex Wednesday afternoon to show solidarity with Scott’s family. “If an officer is scared behind the trigger of a gun, that’s scarier than a person who is walking down the street,” McCarthy said. “They need to have an outside sector come in, instead of taking care of this internally.” Steve Knight, a white pastor at Charlotte's Missiongathering Christian Church, told USA TODAY he arrived at the scene about 7:30 p.m. Tuesday. He said he talked to members of Scott's family as well as neighbors. All said Scott routinely sat in his car reading, waiting for his son's school bus.Knight, 41, said he questions Putney's version of events."I find it difficult to believe, the story that the police are telling," he said. "Until we see video from the scene, and we see a gun, I for one am personally not going to believe that story."George Shears III, pastor at Greater Fellowship Missionary Baptist Church in Charlotte, said the demonstration started out peaceful but "began to boil over very quickly."By 11 p.m., some protesters were throwing rocks and bottles at police, who remained stoic, Shears said. He said he left when police began firing tear gas."That enraged the crowd," Shears, 34, said. "I didn't see any police cars burning, anything like that. I didn't expect that from the city. But people are angry and hurt and sometimes you just gotta let it out."In the hours that followed, Putney said demonstrators, joined by "agitators," damaged at least two police cars, set fire to a trailer, looted a Walmart store and shut down part of Interstate 85. One arrest was made, he said."People are watching how we respond, how we react," Putney said. "I'm optimistic we will have positive outcomes, but it's time for the voiceless majority to stand up and be heard."Nation of Islam representative B.J. Murphy, speaking later Wednesday, said the people of Charlotte were demanding justice. He called on "all black people to keep your money in your pocket. Let everybody feel the pain economically of what we are feeling physically when you kill us."The state NAACP chapter said in a statement officials plan to meet with family members and community leaders Thursday in Charlotte. The organization plans to hold a news conference at 1 p.m."Our objective is simple: to ensure justice-loving people act toward justice, with all evidence, and that we stand together and act from a place of power and love, rather than out of fear and anger," the chapter said in the statement.