Nov. 4, 2016A man was apprehended at a Donald Trump rally in Reno, Nev., on Saturday night, after someone shouted about a gun, but no weapon was found and the man was released.Hillary Clinton and Mr. Trump used the final Saturday before Election Day to make their closing pitches to voters, with Mrs. Clinton in South Florida and Philadelphia and Mr. Trump dashing to four states across three time zones — the sort of barnstorming tours presidential candidates have traditionally made in the last 72 hours before Election Day.ImageCredit...Damon Winter/The New York TimesExcept there is no such thing as Election Day any longer — more than 33 million Americans had already voted by Friday. And there are signs from these early returns, including high turnout among Hispanic voters in key states, that could be cause for concern for the Trump campaign.Here is a look at what’s happening in the campaign during the final weekend:Early voting could spell trouble for Trump as Hispanic voters turn out in droves.Republicans have been worried that Mr. Trump’s hard line on immigration will turn off Hispanic voters, and early signs suggest that their fears are justified.In Florida, at least 200,000 more Hispanics had voted early as of Friday than did during the entire early-voting period four years ago, according to an analysis by Steve Schale, a Democratic strategist who helped run President Obama’s two campaigns here.Nevada, another crucial battleground, is proving to be a similar story.According to Jon Ralston, a political analyst for KTNV, high turnout from Latinos and Democrats in the state’s crucial Clark County is a bad omen for Republicans.Democrats outpaced Republicans in Clark County by 11,000 votes cast on Friday, Mr. Ralston reported, giving Mrs. Clinton a larger firewall than Mr. Obama had in the state when he won by seven points in 2012.____Clinton, returning to South Florida to galvanize Latino voters, basks in the rain.Mrs. Clinton’s afternoon rally in Pembroke Pines, Fla., an increasingly diverse community in Broward County, was aimed at inspiring the region’s mix of Hispanic, black, Caribbean and Jewish voters to cast early ballots.But a driving rain diverted Mrs. Clinton from her script and revealed a happy warrior rarely seen on the campaign trail.“Here’s what I want you to remember,” she told the crowd. “I want to be the president for everybody: everybody who agrees with me, people who don’t agree with me, people who will vote for me, people who don’t vote for me.”The New York Times’s Michael Barbaro described the scene as a moment with an “unfamiliar sense of abandon and joy,” with Mrs. Clinton smiling widely and waving her arms as the rain drenched her.ImageCredit...Doug Mills/The New York Times____At a rally in Tampa, Trump calls Clinton a ‘constitutional crisis’ in the making. And he kisses a baby.For most of Mr. Trump’s rally in Tampa, Fla., he stuck to his favorite lines of attack, warning that Mrs. Clinton would pillage the pocketbooks of regular Americans and work to enrich her cronies.But amid promises to build a wall along the southern border and a vow to take on the Islamic State, Mr. Trump showed that even he had a soft spot when it came to babies.“Oh, look, a future construction worker,” Mr. Trump said, pointing to an infant in the crowd. “Look, look at that baby. He’s so cute. Oh, give me that.”Mr. Trump carried the baby to his lectern. Then he raised the child high and kissed both cheeks.ImageCredit...Damon Winter/The New York Times“That is a great, beautiful baby,” Mr. Trump said to cheers.He then handed the baby to one of his security guards and let out a sigh.It was time to get back to talking about terrorism.Watch it here.____Paul Ryan joins Mike Pence on the trail in Wisconsin.With Mr. Trump hundreds of miles away in North Carolina, a rare glimpse of party unity was on display in Mukwonago, Wis., where Speaker Paul D. Ryan joined Mr. Trump’s running mate, Gov. Mike Pence of Indiana, for a rally in Mr. Ryan’s home state.While Mr. Ryan has generally steered clear of the Trump campaign in recent weeks, he recently acknowledged that he had voted for Mr. Trump along with all of the other Republicans on the ballot. On Saturday, he was more vociferous in his support of the nominee, promising to work with him to repeal the Affordable Care Act.“When Donald Trump says that he wants a special session to repeal and replace Obamacare, let me tell you that as speaker of the House, we are ready, we are willing and we have a plan to do that,” Mr. Ryan said.The relationship between Mr. Ryan and Mr. Trump remains frosty, but it was clear that the highest-ranking Republican in Congress felt genuine affection for Mr. Pence as a kindred conservative spirit. “I have seen this man, when no one is watching this man, be a man of courage, of integrity,” Mr. Ryan said. “He is from the heart of the conservative movement.”____Trump plans a last-minute trip to Minnesota.The campaigns are keeping their schedules fluid in the race’s final days, shifting plans and dispatching surrogates as polls and early-voting returns trickle in.Mr. Trump said on Saturday that he would make a stop in Minnesota before Election Day, and Mr. Pence is expected to do the same. Whether the trip to the traditionally blue state is a sign of an expanding map or a shrinking one for Mr. Trump remains to be seen.Meanwhile, Mrs. Clinton is extending her strategy of trying to turn free concerts into votes.On Sunday, she will return to New Hampshire to campaign in Manchester with the Grammy-winning singer James Taylor.____Clinton looks to dash Republicans’ Pennsylvania dreams again.No state has been so tempting, yet so elusive, for Republicans as Pennsylvania. Mitt Romney made a last-minute trip there four years ago when it was clear that he needed to find an alternate path to 270 electoral votes, and Mr. Trump has refused to give up on it even though every public poll shows that he’s losing there.He was there on Friday, rallying voters in Hershey, in the central part of the state that has kept Mr. Trump somewhat competitive.Yet Pennsylvania elections are typically won and lost in the heavily populated Philadelphia region.Mrs. Clinton has been dominant there in the polls, benefiting from the mix of suburban moderates and liberal city voters. But there is no in-person early voting in the state, so data-obsessed Democrats are somewhat uneasy about where they actually stand. In particular, they are concerned that turnout among millennials and African-Americans may taper off from Mr. Obama’s two wins.The solution: Mrs. Clinton plans to visit Philadelphia twice in the campaign’s closing days, once with the pop singer Katy Perry on Saturday night and then, in a flashing neon sign of continuity, with the president and Michelle Obama on Monday evening for one final pre-election rally.