George W. Bush is a fan of how Ellen DeGeneres leveled the playing field.Eagle-eyed fans spotted the comedian sitting next to the former president during Sunday's matchup between the Dallas Cowboys and Green Bay Packers. And not everyone was happy about it. DeGeneres made light of the situation on "The Ellen DeGeneres Show" Tuesday, calling for more tolerance and kindness while standing up for their unorthodox friendship."Here’s the thing," she added. "I’m friends with George Bush. In fact, I’m friends with a lot of people who don’t share the same beliefs that I have. We’re all different and I think that we've forgotten that that’s OK."Bush cheered on her comments. "President and Mrs. (Laura) Bush really enjoyed being with Ellen and Portia (de Rossi) and appreciated Ellen’s comments about respecting one another. They respect her," his spokesman, Freddy Ford, said in a statement to USA TODAY Tuesday.More:Ellen DeGeneres' witty reply to George Bush photo and 5 more times she's hit back at critics'This is what the world needs':Ellen DeGeneres meets hugging toddlers from viral videoSunday's spotting of the unlikely duo had many fans throwing a flag on the play. "Ellen, this isn’t just a simple difference of opinion. George Bush, his administration, and his colleagues actively discriminated and worked against the LGBT community," one Twitter user wrote, while another added, "Really, really low standards there Ellen, and pretty pathetic.""During the game, they showed a shot of me and George laughing together. And so, people were upset," DeGeneres explained on her show Tuesday. "They thought, 'Why is this gay Hollywood liberal sitting next to a conservative Republican president?'"DeGeneres continued: "When I say 'be kind to one another,' I don’t mean only the people that think the same way that you do. I mean be kind to everyone. Doesn’t matter."She explained that Charlotte Jones, the daughter of Cowboys owner Jerry Jones, invited her and wife de Rossi to sit in Jones' "fancy" suite at AT&T Stadium.They, of course, accepted because "we wanted to keep up with the Joneses," DeGeneres quipped.She said Jones' "very fancy suite" came with "fancy friends," including Bush and the former first lady. DeGeneres said they all had "so much fun" that afternoon despite their differences of opinions … on football that is.  "When we were invited I was aware that I was going to be surrounded by people with very different views and beliefs. And I'm not talking about politics. I was rooting for the Packers," she joked, adding that she hid her Cheesehead Hat in her wife's purse. DeGeneres concluded her message by reminding Bush: "You owe me $6 for the nachos."There's no word on whether Bush has settled his nacho debt yet. 