    President-elect Donald Trump named Sean Spicer his White House press secretary. | Getty Top transition aides will serve as senior members of the incoming White House communications staff, including Republican National Committee strategist Sean Spicer as press secretary, President-elect Donald Trump announced Thursday.
Spicer, Hope Hicks, Jason Miller and Dan Scavino will all serve in the West Wing as assistants to the president. Hicks will merge Trump’s legislative agenda with communications, with her formal role being strategic communications director. Miller will lead the administration’s communications efforts as communications director, and Scavino is in charge of social media as social media director. “Sean, Hope, Jason and Dan have been key members of my team during the campaign and transition,” Trump, who has not held a news conference since July, said in a statement. “I am excited they will be leading the team that will communicate my agenda that will Make America Great Again.”
They join Trump’s former campaign manager, Kellyanne Conway, a senior adviser to the president-elect whom the transition team announced Thursday morning will serve in the White House as a counselor to Trump.
Trump has focused the first six weeks of his transition on filling out his high-profile Cabinet, holding meetings inside Trump Tower daily as reporters identify who’s who and speculate what positions anyone spotted walking toward the elevator may land.
But with fewer than 30 days until his inauguration, Thursday’s announcements are the biggest inroads Trump has made with his White House staff since naming RNC Chairman Reince Priebus his White House chief of staff and campaign CEO and former Breitbart executive Steve Bannon a chief strategist and senior counselor — positions Trump cast as co-equals. Spicer, the Republican National Committee’s communications director and chief strategist, has worked as a senior communications adviser to Trump during the transition. He had told reporters Thursday morning they could expect “further announcements on appointments and staff later today” and additional announcements “in the near future on fulfilling the final Cabinet positions.”
He and Miller, the transition team’s communications director, host daily briefings with the press on Trump’s schedule and take questions.
Hicks, the transition’s press secretary, and Scavino, the transition’s social media director, have been with Trump since he launched his campaign, serving the same role through the campaign and transition — and, in Scavino's case, into the White House, too.
Trump likely made his final deliberations Wednesday. Miller said Trump spent Wednesday holding “internal staff meetings” at his Mar-a-Lago estate in Palm Beach, Florida, where he will remain over the Christmas holiday.
Trump’s White House communications staff will likely differ significantly from President Barack Obama’s team. Obama, for instance, largely relies on his staff to tweet out his message. Trump, however, likes to control his own message, often casting 140-character-or-less missives from his personal Android phone — and his transition team generally opts to tell the press that his tweets speak for themselves rather than attempt to explain the rationale behind them or provide any context.
Conway took issue last week with current White House press secretary Josh Earnest’s performance behind the lectern after the Obama administration spokesman suggested Trump, who has repeatedly denied U.S. intelligence that Russia meddled in the presidential election, knew Russia was responsible for cyberattacks on the Democratic National Committee and Hillary Clinton campaign chairman John Podesta’s personal email account.
“I guess he’s auditioning to be a political pundit after his job is over soon,” she said at the time. “That is incredibly disappointing to hear from the podium of the White House press secretary.”
And Trump’s transition team has already signaled to the White House press corps that change is coming. Priebus told conservative radio host Hugh Hewitt last week that Trump’s team might shake things up.
“I think that many things have to change, and I think that it’s important that we look at all of those traditions that are great, but quite frankly, as you know, don’t really make news,” Priebus said. “And they’re just sort of mundane, boring episodes. And you know, even looking at things like the daily White House briefing from the press secretary, I mean, there’s a lot of different ways that things can be done, and I can assure you we’re looking at that.”Even reserved seating, which Priebus incorrectly asserted wasn’t an issue until the Obama administration took over, could get reshaped.
“The point of all of this conversation is that the traditions, while some of them are great, I think it’s time to revisit a lot of these things that have been done in the White House, and I can assure you that change is going to happen, even on things that might seem boring like this topic,” he said. 