    Anti-abortion activists and supporters of President Donald Trump gather outside the U.S. Supreme Court on Friday for the 44th annual March for Life. | M. Scott Mahaskey/POLITICO 
With Vice President Mike Pence and Trump counselor Kellyanne Conway headlining this year’s event, anti-abortion activists have plenty to cheer. 
Tens of thousands of demonstrators arrived in Washington Friday for an anti-abortion march that’s shaping up as a triumphant affair under President Donald Trump — who made an ambitious projection of crowds as large as 600,000.
Washington's WMATA transit agency said that ridership on Friday was 237,000 as of 11 a.m., which includes daily commuters and was slightly below an average weekday. That's more than at the same time on Trump's inauguration day — 193,000 — and less than for the Women's March last Saturday, when 275,000 people had boarded Metro by that time. It was also slightly below average for a regular weekday. The March for Life, as it’s known, has kicked off on the National Mall every year since 1974 to mark the Jan. 22 anniversary of the Supreme Court’s Roe v. Wade decision establishing abortion rights. With Vice President Mike Pence and Trump counselor Kellyanne Conway headlining this year’s event, anti-abortion activists have plenty to celebrate.
Trump himself tweeted his support of the marchers. “The #MarchForLife is so important. To all of you marching --- you have my full support!” Trump wrote on Twitter Friday morning.
Pence, the first vice president to address the gathering, took the stage to enormous applause and declared that, after recent elections delivered Republicans full control of Washington, “Life is winning in America.” “We’ve come to a historic moment in the cause of life, and we must meet this moment with respect and compassion for every American,” Pence told the throngs gathered by the Washington Monument. “Let this movement be known for love, not anger. Let this movement be known for compassion, not confrontation.”
But Pence was also quick to tout moves that are sure to bring controversial fights. He praised President Donald Trump for reinstating the Mexico City Policy, which bars federal funds from going to organizations abroad that provide abortions, and promised the nomination of an anti-abortion judge to the Supreme Court and moves to strip Planned Parenthood of federal funding.
March for Life organizers estimated on their request for a National Park Service permit that 50,000 would attend Friday’s event, which ends with a march to the Supreme Court.After falsely claiming that at least 1 million people attended his inauguration, Trump predicted Thursday that the anti-abortion march would draw as many as 600,000 people.“You won’t even read about it,” Trump told congressional Republicans gathered in Philadelphia for their annual retreat. In a veiled reference to the millions of demonstrators worldwide who participated in so-called Women’s Marches in opposition to his agenda, Trump added: “When other people show up, you read big time about it.” Trump’s conservative base has rallied behind his emphasis on Inauguration Day turnout, challenging the media to cover the March for Life and encouraging comparisons with the expectation-shattering turnout for the liberal women’s marches. Anti-abortion groups have asserted that previous versions of the march drew hundreds of thousands of protesters.
At least 95 buses were registered to carry marchers on Friday, according to a spokeswoman for Events DC, which is assisting event organizers. Trump’s inauguration had 450 buses registered, and the Women’s March had 1,800 buses registered, a spokesman for the D.C. Department of Transportation said by email.
The March for Life usually brings a boost in Metro rail ridership, according to figures provided by WMATA. The biggest uptick from the event in recent years came in 2009, when the march was held two days after President Barack Obama’s first inauguration. That day saw 824,060 Metro rail trips. The day of the 2016 march saw just 321,735 Metro trips, but a blizzard hitting Washington likely reduced turnout.
Trump proved a polarizing figure for some anti-abortion activists before his election, having labeled himself “very pro-choice” in 1999 and acknowledging on the campaign trail that “people will perhaps go to illegal places” to end pregnancies if abortion is banned. But Trump’s selection of Pence, a hero of the anti-abortion movement, and his Monday signing of an anti-abortion executive order have generated warmer feelings among activists.
For the vice president, the march represents something of a celebratory homecoming. The fiercely anti-abortion Midwesterner has been a presence at the march for years. He repeatedly said on the 2016 campaign trail that Trump could help deliver a Supreme Court that would relegate Roe v. Wade “to the ash heap of history, where it belongs.” In 2003, Pence, then a congressman with some black hairs still visible on a head since turned white, told the 30th Annual March for Life that “abortion is in steep decline in America today … less morally acceptable than any time since 1973.” He has come a long way since then — and since he addressed the crowd in January 2010, a year into Obama’s first term, decrying “a pro-abortion majority in Congress” and “the most pro-abortion president in American history.” With Republicans now in complete control of the White House and Congress, a vow to end funding for Planned Parenthood will carry great weight for those gathered on the Mall — where, less than a week ago, Planned Parenthood President Cecile Richards declared to liberal Women's March demonstrators that “our doors stay open.” Republicans have other plans. Sen. James Lankford (R-Okla.) told POLITICO he believes there may be sufficient support to pass legislation stripping Planned Parenthood, which provides general women's health care services as well as abortions, of federal funding. “There is a lot of energy, based on the Trump administration obviously addressing the Mexico City Policy, saying that United States tax dollars will not be used to provide or promote abortion internationally. That’s a good step,” Lankford told POLITICO. 
