 
Labor The labor nominee was hurt by a lack of support from some of the president's top advisers.    Andrew Puzder exits after his meeting with Donald Trump at Trump International Golf Club on Nov. 19 in Bedminster Township, N.J. | Getty Continue to article content Steve Bannon and Stephen Miller, two of the most powerful voices in President Donald Trump’s inner circle, were never strongly behind Andy Puzder as labor secretary, believing he was too soft on immigration.
So when Puzder’s nomination was teetering on the brink of implosion in recent weeks, that lack of support from the president’s top aides left Puzder, whose backing was already eroding in the Senate, with little choice but to withdraw his name, according to two sources close to Puzder. Even though Puzder had all the right credentials — major Republican donor, backed by Chief of Staff Reince Priebus, and strong support from the business community — his past support for more moderate immigration reform put him on the wrong side of the more radical anti-immigration forces in the Trump administration, according to sources close to the situation. More important, revelations — first reported by POLITICO — that Puzder’s ex-wife had gone on "The Oprah Winfrey Show" with allegations that he abused her in the 1980s moved a critical number of wavering Republican senators to the "no" column.
The Puzder saga came to a quick end Wednesday afternoon when he dropped out from contention to run the Labor Department, the day before he was scheduled to appear in front of several less-than-sympathetic Republican and Democratic senators at his confirmation hearing. Losing a labor secretary nominee within 48 hours of losing an NSC chairman only increased the sense of dysfunction in the 28-day-old Trump administration.
Bannon and Miller distrusted Puzder because of his prior stance in favor of robust immigration, a position that reflected Puzder's business interests as chairman of the parent company of Hardee's and Carl's Jr., which depend heavily on immigrant food workers.
"They [Bannon and Miller] predicted this," said a source close to the situation. "They said his confirmation was going to be a problem before they made the announcement."
White House Spokesman Sean Spicer said at a briefing Wednesday that Trump would not issue a statement on Puzder. In his own statement, Puzder said: “While I won't be serving in the administration, I fully support the president and his highly qualified team.”
It was mainly the potency of the immigration issue that weighed Puzder down when the Huffington Post reported that he'd employed an undocumented worker for several years (and didn't bother to pay back taxes until after he was nominated). A labor nominee, Linda Chavez, under President George W. Bush withdrew under much less damning circumstances.
As word spread Wednesday that Puzder was out, anti-immigration groups expressed their delight. The conservative National Review editorialized against Puzder's nomination earlier Wednesday because he "has been a reliable font of clichés in favor of higher levels of legal immigration."
Another problem for Puzder was Senate Republicans' mounting exasperation with the daily fiascoes emanating from the Trump White House. "They're about out of political capital," one Senate GOP staffer said of the White House. "Every day, they seem to be making it harder for us. They're in a spot where they have to pick their battles."
Two weeks ago, in a meeting with Senate GOP communications staffers, Kellyanne Conway shrugged off one participant's complaint that the White House wasn't providing enough cover as congressional Republicans defended Trump's Cabinet picks against a surge of constituent phone calls opposing them. Conway asserted, correctly, that many of the calls against Education Secretary Betsy DeVos' nomination were being orchestrated by teachers' unions, saying that it didn't affect "real people."
When senators this week viewed the Oprah video — in which Puzder's ex-wife accused Puzder of physically beating her and then threatening her ("You will pay for this") when she went public— they sensed constituents wouldn't likely forgive them rubber-stamping his nomination and saw little reason to put themselves at risk to please the White House.
"It was a sheer counting of votes," said Sen. Richard Burr (R-N.C.). "People made their mind up that they were not going to be part of a hearing. And I understand that."
"They didn't bother to vet him," observed one Senate GOP staffer. "They didn't do much to defend him. At some point, it's no longer our problem."
The business sector Puzder hailed from--fast food--posed a problem from the start. The Labor Department has targeted restaurants as one of 15 "low wage, high violation" industries where it focuses its enforcement efforts. DOL's Wage and Hour division pursues more wage theft cases against restaurants, mainly fast food restaurants, than any other sector, recovering nearly $40 million in back wages in 2016 alone. The fast-food industry has been the locus of national protests to raise the minimum wage above the current hourly federal minimum of $7.25. Puzder said he didn't oppose a minimum-wage increase in principle, but opposed an increase to $10.10, a goal congressional Democrats have long since abandoned in favor of $12 or $15. Puzder also opposed a rule issued under President Barack Obama that would extend eligibility for overtime pay to four million additional workers. The rule is currently in legal limbo after a federal judge halted its implementation in November.
Puzder's fast-food problem was compounded when a 2011 speech surfaced in which he called his fast-food workers "the best of the worst" and sometimes "the worst of the worst."The fast-food company that Puzder chaired, CKE Restaurants, was comparatively light on wage-theft violations compared to most of its competitors in the industry, according to an analysis of enforcement data published by Bloomberg BNA in September. But DOL still found violations in nearly 60 percent of its investigations of CKE restaurants--most of them owned and managed not by CKE but by franchisees.
That was enough to rally labor unions in protest against Puzder.
From the beginning, though, the most volatile personal issue attached to Puzder was the accusations of physical violence that his ex-wife, Lisa Fierstein, aired three decades ago. Fierstein retracted the accusations in Nov. 1990 as part of a child-custody settlement, and repeated the retraction as recently as last month. But POLITICO's discovery that Fierstein donned a wig and sunglasses to repeat her accusations under the assumed name "Ann" on Oprah in March 1990 called aspects of Fierstein's retractions into question, and prompted a search for the tape by multiple news organizations and the Senate HELP Committee.
Sen. Susan Collins (R-Maine) let drop Monday that the tape was in the HELP Committee's possession and that she'd seen it. That put the search for an additional copy into high gear. POLITICO obtained a copy of the video from Charlotte Fedders, who appeared on the Oprah episode with Fierstein, and published it Tuesday night. Fedders became an advocate for battered wives after a 1985 Wall Street Journal article revealed her to be the victim of beatings by her then-husband John Fedders, a much-respected chief of enforcement in Ronald Reagan's SEC. After publication, Fedders swiftly lost his job.
Tara Palmeri, Eli Stokols and Burgess Everett contributed to this report. 
