Ryan W. MillerAfter a jury found the Minnesota police officer who killed Philando Castile not guilty on Friday, Castile's mother Valerie pushed back against the decision."People have died for us to have these rights and now we're devolving. We're going back down to 1969. Damn. What is it going to take? I'm mad as hell right now, yes I am," she said.Valerie Castile defended her son, who was killed in July, saying he would never jeopardize someone's life, especially with his girlfriend and her child in the car at the time. Philando Castile was killed during a traffic stop, and his girlfriend live streamed the moments after on Facebook Live."I will continue to say murder because where in this planet do you tell the truth and you be honest and you still be murdered by the police of Minnesota?" Valerie Castile asked.Later Friday, thousands of people gathered on the steps of the state Capitol in St. Paul, holding signs and banners and chanting in response to the not guilty verdict. After the hourlong rally, protesters took to the streets. Saint Paul Police escorted the crowd, which they estimated to be about 2,000 people.The protest was peaceful, but a smaller group splintered off and walked down an entrance ramp to block Interstate 94, quickly snarling traffic and leading to the freeway’s shutdown in both directions, The Associated Press reported.Jeronimo Yanez was cleared of a manslaughter charge as well as two lesser charges. After the verdict was read, Valerie Castile yelled an expletive and family and friends left the courtroom in tears."My son loved this state. He had one tattoo on his body, and it was of the Twin Cities," Valerie Castile said. "My son loved this city, and this city killed my son."Valerie Castile also addressed the crowd directly after leaving the courthouse, expressing her disappointment."The system continues to fail black people, and it will continue to fail you all. Like I said, because this happened with Philando, when they get done with us, they coming for you, for you, for you and all your interracial children," Valerie Castile said. "Y'all are next, and you will be standing up here fighting for justice just as well as I am."Contributing: KARE-TV, The Associated PressFollow Ryan Miller on Twitter @RyanW_MillerRead more:Minnesota officer acquitted of manslaughter in shooting Philando Castile during traffic stopFacebook Live violence horrifies users, who say Facebook's still not doing enoughMinn. officer charged with manslaughter in death of Philando Castile