WASHINGTON — He called North Korea's Kim Jong Un "Rocket Man," Iran's rulers a "murderous regime," and Venezuela "corrupt."Those will be the headlines from President Trump's first address to the countries of the world at the United Nations General Assembly on Tuesday, and for good reason. It was perhaps the most aggressive speech ever delivered by a U.S. president at the U.N., an organization whose founding document encouraged the nations of the world to seek peace, promote human rights and uphold international law.But amid the provocative language, the widely anticipated address also provided a clear articulation of Trump's emerging worldview. He envisions an international order in which each nation pursues its own self interests — and cooperates only when those interests converge.That philosophy has rankled NATO allies, upended trade deals and pulled the world's second largest carbon polluter out of the Paris climate agreement.But at the United Nations, Trump wanted the other 192 members to know: It's not just "America First."It's every nation first. "As president of the United States, I will always put America first, just like you, as the leaders of your countries, will always — and should always — put your countries first," he told the other delegations to a round of applause.More:At United Nations, Trump threatens to 'totally destroy North Korea' if it continues on nuclear path5 takeaways from President Trump's United Nations speech, from North Korea to 'America First' foreign policyFrom 'Rocket Man' to 'loser terrorists,' Donald Trump brings his signature phrases to United Nations speech"Strong, sovereign nations," he said, in a phrase he repeatedly emphasized, "let their people take ownership of the future and control their own destiny."It's a remarkable reversal in tone from the opening of general debate at the U.N. 364 days earlier, when President Barack Obama addressed the same world body with a theme of "cooperation and integration." In fact, Obama's speech was largely seen as a preemptive rebuttal of Trump's form of "aggressive nationalism."Obama warned of "a crude populism — sometimes from the far left, but more often from the far right — which seeks to restore what they believe was a better, simpler age free of outside contamination."As its most important founder, host nation and largest financial contributor, the United States has always had an outsized influence on the world body. But most U.S. presidents have walked a diplomatic tight rope, trying to use persuasion and an appeal to common values to prod the United Nations to action.Trump called for "a great reawakening of nations" to address the world's problems. With its tough talk, Biblical tone and nationalist themes, Trump's speech carried the voice of one of his most hard-line White House advisers, Stephen Miller. "If the righteous many do not confront the wicked few, then evil will triumph," Trump said.Those wicked few, in Trump's view, include:► North Korea, which Trump described as a murderous and menacing regime. "The United States has great strength and patience, but if it is forced to defend itself or its allies, we will have no choice but to totally destroy North Korea," he said. "Rocket Man is on a suicide mission for himself and for his regime."► Iran, "an economically depleted rogue state whose chief exports are violence, bloodshed and chaos." Trump all but threatened to tear up the nuclear deal negotiated with Iran by the United States and five other countries. "Frankly, that deal is an embarrassment to the United States, and I don’t think you’ve heard the last of it — believe me," he said.► Venezuela, where Trump accused socialist dictator Nicolas Maduro of seizing power from democratic institutions and plunging the once oil-rich nation into poverty and misery. But unlike North Korea and Iran, Trump said the threat posed by the regime is not to its neighbors but its own people. "We are prepared to take further action if the government of Venezuela persists on its path to impose authoritarian rule on the Venezuelan people," he said.Trump's speech to the nations of the world was also a reminder that such addresses have a domestic as well as an international audience. He began the speech by talking about his election victory, the stock market's record high, good job numbers and his defense budget. He ended it with a tribute to the "forgotten" American middle class. In between, he hit on many of the resentments that propelled his campaign for president.He argued for helping refugees where they are, as opposed to resettling them in the United States. He spoke of the costs — "often ignored by both media and government" — of immigration. And he complained that other countries have "gamed the system and broke the rules" on trade."We can no longer be taken advantage of, or enter into a one-sided deal where the United States gets nothing in return," Trump said Tuesday. "As long as I hold this office, I will defend America’s interests above all else."