          This photo shows Royal Caribbean Cruises’ Freedom of the Seas ship anchored in Labadee, a port located on the northern coast of Haiti. The company is sending a cruise ship to Puerto Rico to assist with hurricane relief. (ALEXIUZ/Getty Images)    Royal Caribbean is pitching in on hurricane relief in any way it can.  The cruise line has canceled its Sept. 30 Adventure of the Seas trip so it can focus the ship on helping with relief from Hurricane Maria, along with Hurricane Irma, which passed through just weeks before.  The Adventure of the Seas ship will be sent to Puerto Rico to deliver supplies to the Caribbean island. It will also usher evacuees to Fort Lauderdale, Fla., before making another trip to the island next week, according to CNN Money.  The passenger vessel holds 3,800 people and will bring aid to San Juan, along with St. Croix and St. Thomas — both victims of Maria and Irma.     Neighbors sit on a couch outside their destroyed homes as sun sets in the aftermath of Hurricane Maria, in Yabucoa, Puerto Rico, Tuesday, Sept. 26, 2017. (Gerald Herbert/AP)   The Adventure arrived in San Juan, Puerto Rico's capital, on Wednesday.  The situation is quite dire in Puerto Rico, in the wake of widespread power outages.   People are even stranded inside the island's main airport, which is running on limited emergency power, sans air conditioning. It's also operating only a limited number of flights.  Because TSA equipment was damaged in the storm, security protocols are being carried out by hand. Airlines are also encountering trouble printing boarding passes, CNN Money writes.   Royal Caribbean is donating water, medical supplies and more. Thus far, the company has helped transport 1,700 people. It will also match donations of up to $1 million to help with hurricane relief.    A man tries to rebuild his house after the area was hit by Hurricane Maria in Canovanas, Puerto Rico Sept. 26, 2017. (Carlos Garcia Rawlins/REUTERS)   Royal Caribbean is not alone in this endeavor, either.  Norwegian Cruise Line is working with the group All Hands Volunteers to rebuild schools and infrastructure. It's also donating $600,000 to rebuilding efforts and will match up to $1.25 million in donations to All Hands' and Happy Heart Fund's efforts.  Carnival, too, has utilized 11 ships to bring supplies to the Caribbean. They've stopped in Barbuda and St. Maarten during cruise trips, CNN Money notes.  After Irma, Royal Caribbean also teamed up charitable funds to pledge up to $10 million to support Florida and the Caribbean.   puerto rico  hurricane maria  hurricanes    Recommended on Daily News     