President Donald Trump signed an executive order on Wednesday aimed at helping the more than 30 million Americans who suffer from chronic kidney disease. The changes outlined in the order are intended to help ease the financial hardships for living donors, make it easier for patients to get in-home dialysis, improve the system for collecting usable kidneys from deceased donors, and to give financial incentives for doctors and clinics to help patients stave off end-stage kidney disease by about six months. Officials cited a study that suggests long term it may be possible to find 17,000 more kidneys and 11,000 other organs from deceased donors for transplant every year.“It’s truly an exciting day for advancing kidney health in our country,” Trump said. "Today’s announcement on Advancing the American Kidney Health Initiative is smart policy that benefits patients and taxpayers alike," the American Association of Kidney Patients said in a statement. "We are gratified that the Administration is releasing a policy platform that will make a real difference in the lives of Americans affected by this disease," the American Kidney Fund President LaVarne Burton said. While the moves to help living donors and to improve the procurement of organs from deceased donors will require new innovation, the initiative to increase the number of patients getting at-home dialysis is expected to take effect sooner.With changes to Medicare that will give dialysis providers equal incentive to treat patients at home, the administration hopes to decrease the number of patients having to spend hours getting dialysis at a facility three or four times a week. Currently, about 14% of patients in kidney failure get at-home dialysis or an early transplant. By 2025, the goal is to have 80% of patients getting one of those options, officials said.The change in Medicare is being implemented through a part of the Affordable Care Act that was created to find ways to save funds and improve the quality of care. The administration is currently arguing in federal court that ACA, often referred to as Obamacare, should be ruled unconstitutional and thrown out entirely, which would include the innovation center. Much of the response on social media to Trump's speech celebrating the executive order focused more on his choice of words than the specifics of the policy. "The kidney has a very special place in the heart," Trump said, pointing to his chest as he wrapped up his remarks. "It's an incredible thing." Many mocked the comment, which clearly appeared to be intended metaphorically, as evidence that the president lacks basic knowledge of human anatomy. "Narrator: Donald Trump, of course, has no idea what a kidney is or what it does," one Twitter user quipped. Contributing: The Associated Press