         President Trump signaled he's willing to reform the federal background check system in the wake of last week's horrific high school shooting in Florida that left 17 people dead.  Trump — a fierce Second Amendment defender — chatted with Sen. John Cornyn (R-Tex.) on Friday about a bipartisan bill to embolden the background check system, the White House said.  "While discussions are ongoing and revisions are being considered, the President is supportive of efforts to improve the federal background check system," White House Press Secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders said in a statement.  Trump was criticized for not condemning gun violence after Nikolas Cruz killed 17 people at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School in Parkland, Fla., last Wednesday.   Cruz was alerted to the FBI and local law enforcement, but was still legally able to buy and possess the AR-15 he used in the shooting, officials said.  Trump similarly didn't call for tighter gun regulations after the church shooting in Sutherland Springs, Tex., last November, or one in Las Vegas that killed 58 people a month earlier — saying it was too soon to discuss policy after such a tragedy.     Trump, who has sided with the NRA, might be interested in reforming background checks. (REUTERS/Kevin Lamarque)   Instead, he has focused his remarks on mental health issues with each shooter.  But students who survived the Parkland massacre announced Sunday that they'll march on Washington against Trump and other lawmakers who were tied to the NRA.  Trump plans to hold a listening session with students and faculty at the White House on Wednesday, but it wasn't made clear if students from Douglas High School will be among them.  In the past, Trump has touted his support for the NRA, which backed him during the 2016 election.  Trump declared the "eight-year assault" on gun owners was over as he spoke to a crowd of NRA members in late April 2017.    The move comes after survivors of last week's mass shooting spoke out against lawmakers who are backed by the NRA. (RHONA WISE/AFP/Getty Images)   "You have a true friend and champion in the White House," Trump told the crowd.  "No longer will the government be trying to undermine your rights and your freedoms as Americans. Instead, we will work with you, by your side."   Trump rolled back an Obama-era regulation requiring the Social Security Administration to report any people with particular mental illnesses, stopping them from potentially buying a gun.  Cornyn introduced the background check bill last November with Sen. Chris Murphy (D-Conn.) after the Sutherland Springs shooting, which left 26 churchgoers dead.  The legislation would ensure states and government agencies had a stronger plan to report red flags to the National Instant Criminal Background Check System. The bill would penalize federal agencies that fail to provide the necessary records and reward states that comply with federal grant preferences and other incentives.  It came after the Air Force admitted to not properly alerting the database that church rampage killer Devin Kelley was a threat for a domestic violence conviction while in the service.    Recommended on Daily News     