Midway through the rally for gun control that concluded the March for Our Lives,
the Marjory Stoneman Douglas junior Jaclyn Corin brought out a special
guest, Yolanda Renee King, the nine-year-old granddaughter of Martin
Luther King, Jr., and Coretta Scott King. “I have a dream that enough is
enough,” Yolanda King said, “and that this should be a gun-free world.”And then, wearing a white coat, with an orange ribbon pinned to it in
remembrance, the miniature activist stood before the crowd of thousands
with a gap-toothed grin and led them in call-and-response:Spread the word(“Spread the word!” The thousands gathered shouted in response.)All across the nationWe areGoing to beA great generation.It is, at least, a generation that has now defined itself. Regardless of
its long-term effects, the March for Our Lives is the first major statement by Americans born after 1999, who have presented a new
template for protest. The March for Our Lives was a massive outcry
against extreme violence delivered with a mix of pop sentiment,
corporate coöperation, and an awareness of the socioeconomic privilege
that allows certain voices to be heard louder than others. Youth protest
today does not look like it did fifty years ago, although that’s boring
to say. Many of the students came to Washington, D.C., with their
parents. Stoneman Douglas students were met by politicians on Capitol
Hill. The Washington Wizards invited them to basketball practice.
Student journalists held a panel at the Newseum. A concert the night
before was thrown in their honor, and Shake Shack sponsored a
sign-making party.The student leaders were grateful, thanking their celebrity donors and
corporate sponsors on social media, posing in front of the little blue
bird at Twitter’s Washington offices. One student even photographed and
tweeted the boxes of granola bars and snacks donated by Kind. The media
could not love them enough: there were interviews on “60 Minutes,” NPR’s
“Morning Edition,” and the late-night news shows. There were major
interactive packages in Teen Vogue, and a Time magazine cover. There
was, in short, so much consensus about the message of the student
movement that it has to be one of the least anti-establishment social
movements in American history. What the student leaders seem to be
saying is that they don’t want trouble, and, had a person not arrived at
their school with a gun, they would have kept their heads down and
scored high on their S.A.T.s. They have been as polite and as popular as
protesters can hope to be, and yet the establishment has continued to
prove reluctant to change.The students marched on Saturday, the day after Congress had departed
for its spring recess, and the spending bill that Donald Trump signed on
Friday had included three meagre actions to address gun violence: fifty million dollars in grants for school-security measures; attempts to
improve the National Instant Criminal Background Check System; and a
clarification of the terms of the Dickey Amendment that will now allow
for research into the effects of gun violence (although the amendment
still bans the use of government funding to promote gun control). As
tens of thousands of people descended on the Capitol to demand measures
such as universal background checks and a ban on assault rifles that
lawmakers would likely continue to ignore, most of those lawmakers left
town. Two days before the march, Jaelynn Willey, a sixteen-year-old
student at Great Mills High School, in southern Maryland, died, of the
injuries she sustained after another student shot her at school. Adults
at the march talked about “standing out of the way” and provided snacks.“It’s about amplifying the voices of current students,” Lysee Webb, who
graduated from Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School in 2003 and now
lives in Brooklyn, said. She and her sister, Emma Webb (Class of 2009),
were among the hundreds of M.S.D. alumni who gathered the morning of the
march in the ballroom at the J. W. Marriott hotel in downtown Washington
for a pre-march breakfast. The alumni breakfast was a culmination of
fund-raising and organizing efforts that had begun in the immediate
aftermath of February 14th, with impressive results: I spoke with a
group of students who had just disembarked from a seventeen-hour bus
ride from the University of Central Florida, and who would return to the
bus again at 6 P.M.Current Stoneman Douglas students arrived to Washington in all manner of
convoys, some on buses, others with their families (the march coincided
with spring break). One group travelled to Washington on a plane lent by
the New England Patriots. At 4:10 A.M. on Saturday, three planes carrying
five hundred and sixty-seven students total departed from Fort Lauderdale. The
students were whisked directly from the tarmac to the site of the rally,
where they were immediately given a special place in front of the stage,
where the media started gathering at seven-thirty to watch them file in.
Before the rally, the student speakers came out for twenty minutes of
intense questioning. The Parkland students were now joined by a
coalition of speakers from all over the country, an effort to emphasize
that the weak gun laws that result in school shootings also cause the
everyday gun violence to which Americans have shown themselves inured.
“We’re seeing all these people coming out under one cause; it’s really
empowering, it’s really incredible to see,” Delaney Tarr said. “It is a
lot, but it’s a good version of a lot.”