Corrections & clarifications: A previous version of this article had the wrong date for Barbara Bush’s quote at the Houston Astrodome. It was Sept. 5, 2005.Barbara Bush was known for her bluntness and candor, albeit more often in private than in public. Here are some of her most memorable quotes, including some controversial ones:• Describing Geraldine Ferraro, her husband's opponent for vice president in 1984: "I can't say it, but it rhymes with 'rich.'" (Oct. 15, 1984) She later apologized, and said she had the word "witch" in mind.• To the Wellesley College graduating class: "At the end of your life, you will never regret not having passed one more test, not winning one more verdict or not closing one more deal. You will regret time not spent with a husband, a friend, a children, or a parent." (June 1,1990)• Her advice to Hillary Rodham Clinton about handling reporters as first lady: "Avoid this crowd like the plague. And if they quote you, make damn sure they heard you." (Aug. 24, 1992)• On her decision not to watch much TV during the run-up to the Iraq war being led by her son, George W. Bush: "But why should we hear about body bags, and deaths, and how many, what day it's going to happen, and how many this and what do you suppose? Or, I mean, it's, it's not relevant. So why should I waste my beautiful mind on something like that? And watch him suffer." (March 18, 2003)• After visiting refugees who had fled Hurricane Katrina and were being temporarily housed in the Houston Astrodome: "What I'm hearing, which is sort of scary, is they all want to stay in Texas. Everyone is so overwhelmed by the hospitality. And so many of the people in the arena here, you know, were underprivileged anyway, so this is working very well for them." (Sept. 5, 2005)• On son Jeb running for the Republican presidential nomination in 2016: "There are other people out there that are very qualified and we've had enough Bushes." (April 25, 2013)More:Barbara Bush, former first lady and matriarch of Bush family, dies at 92More:Barbara Bush on George H. W. Bush: 'Still in love with the man I married 72 years ago'More:Barbara Bush: In her own words, from political prognostication to 'rhymes with rich'More:Barbara Bush: Lesser-known facts about former first lady