  The dirty trickster is all out of tricks.  Roger Stone, a longtime Donald Trump confidant and self-described “dirty trickster” of Republican politics, was convicted Friday of witness tampering, lying to Congress and obstructing a House committee probe into Russian interference in the 2016 election.  A Washington jury deliberated over a day-and-a-half before returning its verdict.  Stone, 67, is the sixth Trump ally to be convicted of charges brought as part of former special counsel Robert Mueller’s investigation into the Kremlin’s 2016 election attack and possible coordination with the president’s campaign.   Clad in a pinstripe suit and blue tie, Stone had no visible reaction as the seven-count guilty verdict was read in court. Stone could face as much as 20 years behind bars when he’s sentenced Feb. 6.  Federal Judge Amy Berman Jackson allowed Stone to remain free on bail until his sentencing. As he walked out of court holding hands with his wife, reporters asked Stone if he had any comment.   “None whatsoever,” he snapped before jumping into an SUV.  Trump, already fuming Friday over the House impeachment inquiry into his Ukraine scandal, quickly took to Twitter after Stone’s guilty verdict landed.  “So they now convict Roger Stone of lying and want to jail him for many years to come,” the president tweeted before listing off a number of his perceived political enemies, including Hillary Clinton, Mueller and former FBI Director James Comey.  “Didn’t they lie?” Trump continued. “A double standard like never seen before in the history of our Country?”  Stone, who worked for Richard Nixon — he’s got the disgraced president’s face tattooed on his back — lied in sworn testimony before the House Intelligence Committee in 2017 because the “truth” would have looked “bad” for Trump, prosecutors said.  The truth, as laid out by prosecutors, was that Stone went to extraordinary lengths in 2016 to find out what information Russia had that could damage Hillary Clinton and thus help Trump.  Through intermediaries, Stone kept in regular contact with WikiLeaks, the radical online organization that made public caches of emails stolen by Russian hackers from servers belonging to the Democratic National Committee and Clinton’s campaign, prosecutors said.  While Stone didn’t have an official role in Trump’s campaign, witnesses at his trial — including former deputy Trump campaign chairman Rick Gates — testified he kept Trump and his advisers in the loop about WikiLeaks developments.  Phone records, text messages and emails obtained by the government showed Stone told top Trump campaign officials as early as April 2016 that WikiLeaks had damaging information about Hillary Clinton and the Democrats.  In July 2016, WikiLeaks dumped its first trove of DNC emails, posing a major embarrassment to Clinton.  According to Gates, Stone spoke to Trump directly over the phone after the DNC dump and told him that he should expect “more information” to come out.  A few months later, WikiLeaks released emails hacked from an account belonging to John Podesta, Clinton’s campaign manager, dealing a devastating blow to the former secretary of state’s presidential bid weeks before the election.  Despite the extensive trail of contacts, Stone told congressional investigators during his sworn 2017 testimony that he hadn’t corresponded with anyone in the Trump campaign about WikiLeaks.  The witness tampering count of which Stone was convicted relates to his attempts to prevent New York comedian Randy Credico from testifying truthfully about his role as Stone’s WikiLeaks intermediary.  During the trial, Credico testified Stone had told him to “do a ‘Frank Pentangeli’” when he appeared for testimony in the House Intelligence Committee probe. Pentangeli is character in “The Godfather: Part II” who lies before Congress.  Stone also threatened Credico’s dog, according to prosecutors, saying he was “going to take that dog away.”  Stone’s legal team maintained he didn’t lie to Congress because his communications about WikiLeaks were just bluster and exaggeration and not based on first-hand knowledge.  The Republican provocateur did not take the stand in his own trial and his lawyers called no witnesses in his defense. 