When President Trump derides the media as the enemy of the people — as he's doing more frequently — he's not just spouting off his momentary frustration. He's stating official White House policy.The White House just made that abundantly clear. Four times in two days, White House press secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders was offered the opportunity by reporters to clarify whether the president really thinks journalists are the enemy of Americans, or that it's wrong for people to harass journalists doing their job. It wouldn't be the first time an official White House statement contradicted something the president said or tweeted.But four times in two days, Sanders refused to say that the media is not the enemy of the people or to condemn people who heckled a CNN reporter Tuesday in Tampa, to the point where he feared someone was going to get hurt.Just a sample of the sad scene we faced at the Trump rally in Tampa. I’m very worried that the hostility whipped up by Trump and some in conservative media will result in somebody getting hurt. We should not treat our fellow Americans this way. The press is not the enemy. pic.twitter.com/IhSRw5Ui3R— Jim Acosta (@Acosta) August 1, 2018
Instead, the White House press secretary ticked off a list of sometimes-inaccurate and sometimes-unrelated grievances about how these hyperpartisan times have affected her life and the president's life, and why they blame journalists for that.“The media continues to ratchet up the verbal assault against the president and everyone in his administration,” Sanders said.Basically: The White House thinks that journalists are the enemy of the people.I don't need to get into here why this is a problem; that's Democracy 101.But it's worth spending a moment on where we are, both because having this debate in the first place is not normal and because it is shaping up to be a front line in the political battle between right and left in 2018.In a week full of tension between journalists and Trump and Trump supporters, the most heady moment so far came Thursday, when the journalist at the center of so many attacks from the right (including from the president himself), CNN's Jim Acosta, twice asked Sanders if she would say that the media is not the enemy of the people.He was following up on an earlier question in the briefing about how Ivanka Trump said she doesn't agree with her father that the press is the country's enemy. Trump later tried to square her statement with his own by claiming he doesn't think all media is the enemy, just most of it."... [I]t would be a good thing if you were to say right here at this briefing that the press — the people who are gathered in this room right now, doing their jobs every day, asking questions of the people like the ones you brought forward earlier — are not the enemy of the people,” Acosta said. “I think we deserve that.”Instead, Sanders looked down at her notes and appeared to read a prepared statement about her perceived grievances with the media; how, among other things, she was cruelly made fun of by a comedian at the 2018 White House Correspondents' Association dinner. (The association said Michelle Wolf's performance “was not in the spirit" of the mission of promoting the free press.)I mention Sanders reading from her notes because it's a telling detail that she had something ready to go on this. It suggests she knew that she was going to be asked about Trump's views on the media, she had talked about it with the president, and they decided not to back down, even on the basic question of whether the media contributes a public good to U.S. democracy.Not that her response was a surprise. On Wednesday, a reporter asked Sanders if she would condemn the heckling of Acosta at Trump's rally. The president tweeted the heckling to his 53.5 million followers.Rather than denounce what happened to Acosta, Sanders used that opportunity to rip the media. She didn't help her contention when she seized on a debunked story about the hunt for Osama bin Laden.Acosta tried again. His question is worth sharing in full because it felt like a moment that may stand out in the dozens of daily contentious moments between the Trump White House and journalists:You did not say in the course of your remarks you just made that the press is not the enemy of the people. Are we to take it from what you just said — we all get put through the ringer, we all get put in the meat grinder in this town, and you're no exception. I'm sorry that happened to you; I wish that would not have happened — but for the sake of this room, the people who are in this room, this democracy, this country, all the people around the world who are watching, what are you saying Sarah, and the White House for the United States of America, the president of the United States should not refer to us as the enemy of the American people. His own daughter acknowledged that and all I'm asking you to do, Sarah, is to acknowledge that right now and right here.Sanders did not take him up on that: “I appreciate your passion, I share it. I addressed this question, I addressed my personal feelings. I'm here to speak on behalf of the president. He's made his comments clear.”Acosta walked out of the press briefing before it was over. He was downright exasperated.I walked out of the end of that briefing because I am totally saddened by what just happened. Sarah Sanders was repeatedly given a chance to say the press is not the enemy and she wouldn't do it. Shameful.— Jim Acosta (@Acosta) August 2, 2018
Bashing the media to gain leverage with one's supporters is a tactic as old as American politics. But Trump has taken it to new heights by using language that dictators of history also have seize on. He's exploited heavy public skepticism in journalism to cast journalists as the main villains when things go wrong in his administration. As The Fix's Eugene Scott wrote after a man gunned down journalists at the Capital Gazette in Annapolis in June:Those disinclined to trust the media get reinforcement when highly influential politicians and partisan media figures elevate the critiques, sometimes making personal jabs at journalists’ motives and their character. What may start as a difference of opinion eventually becomes a direct assault on the humanity of those in the media — something that those following press freedom issues have witnessed in other parts of the world.A sitting Republican senator, Jeff Flake (Ariz.), started out 2018 by comparing Trump to Soviet dictator Joseph Stalin over his attacks on the media.Sen. Jeff Flake (R-Ariz.) delivered a speech on Jan. 17, comparing President Trump to Joseph Stalin and criticizing his attacks on the media. (U.S. Senate)At the same time, there is less room for journalists to make mistakes now that Trump has made them a central character in his own political story. On Wednesday a Politico reporter apologized for calling the Trump supporters cursing out Acosta “garbage people.” His apology made national headlines.None of this is fading anytime soon. It's a safe bet things are only going to get worse between journalists and the White House and some of Trump's supporters before — if — they get better. What that will do to journalism, to politics, to democracy is an open, even scary question.