The TV WatchStepping Out of a Husband’s Shadow, and Perhaps Overshadowing HimAug. 29, 2012She may be too good.Ann Romney is so gifted at politics, she may actually make her husband look a little bad. Their personality gap — her ease, his discomfort — has been evident in most of the many joint interviews they have given television reporters.But it really stood out during her bold, boisterous testimonial to him at the Republican convention on Tuesday night. She was electric — when Mitt Romney came to her side at the end, he somehow sapped the energy from the moment.“I read somewhere that Mitt and I have a ‘storybook marriage,’ ” she said. “Well, in the storybooks I read, there were never long, long rainy winter afternoons in a house with five boys screaming at once. And those storybooks never seemed to have chapters called M.S. or breast cancer.”Mrs. Romney has been afflicted with both.The adversity she glossed over with such poise was hers to overcome, not his; her energetic, excited performance highlighted her appeal even more than his steadfastness.She addressed the women in the audience in complicit tones. “And if you listen carefully, you’ll hear the women sighing a little bit more than the men,” she said. “It’s how it is, isn’t it? It’s the moms who always have to work a little harder, to make everything right.”Mrs. Romney, wearing a bright red silk dress, gave a tribute that was loving and generous and revealed just how much Mr. Romney owes his talented and determined spouse.Her multiple sclerosis is under control, but stress, she has said, is a trigger. Expectations for her speech were high. (Fox News predicted it would be a “campaign game-changer.”) So were the political risks of speaking while Hurricane Isaac was tearing up the Gulf Coast. Mrs. Romney was careful to begin with a word of prayer for those at risk.ImageCredit...Stephen Crowley/The New York TimesShe seemed a little hyped up and nervous, and that giddiness was disarming. (She said “sexful” instead of “successful.”) She described herself as a grandmother, but at times she sounded like a young girl trying to convince her classmates that the guy she is bringing to the prom is better than he seems. “I could tell you why I fell in love with him. He was tall, laughed a lot, was nervous — girls like that, it shows the guy’s a little intimidated — and he was nice to my parents,” she said. “But he was really glad when my parents weren’t around.”Most of all she worked hard to play down the Romney wealth and privilege. She described herself as the granddaughter of a Welsh coal miner. (Earlier in the day, she distributed cookies to reporters on the press plane, Welsh cakes she made from her grandmother’s recipe.) She recalled their life as newlyweds in a basement apartment with a fold-down ironing board as a dining room table.His wealth, she insisted, was his own doing, not a hand-me-down. “And let’s be honest. If the last four years had been more successful, do we really think there would be this attack on Mitt Romney’s success?” she asked, supplying her own answer: “Of course not.”She tried to make his reticence into a virtue: “Mitt doesn’t like to talk about how he has helped others because he sees it as a privilege, not as a political talking point.”Like many a would-be first lady, Mrs. Romney was tapped to make her husband seem more approachable and personable. “I know this good and decent man for what he is,” she said, “warm and loving and patient.” As with other politicians who seem to have a happy family life, his marriage, which produced five devoted sons and 18 grandchildren, is as much a part of his campaign biography as his success at Bain Capital.But more than any other candidate in recent memory, Mr. Romney delegates his likability to his wife.He was born into a political family — his father ran for president, his mother for Senate — but Ann Romney is the natural.“The funny thing is, I don’t really get that nervous when I speak, I don’t get that nervous when I do TV interviews or anything else,” she told Diane Sawyer of ABC moments after practicing with the teleprompter. “The only time I get nervous is when I show my horse.”