As far back as last October, when the special counsel Robert Mueller indicted Paul Manafort and his protégé, Rick Gates, on charges of conspiracy to launder money and failure to disclose foreign bank accounts, it was clear that the two men were in serious trouble. Court documents accused Manafort and Gates of generating “tens of millions of dollars in income” in the past decade and a half while working for entities associated with Viktor Yanukovych, the pro-Russia former President of Ukraine, and laundering the money “through scores of United States and foreign corporations, partnerships and bank accounts.”Earlier this year, Gates, who is forty-six, reached a plea deal with Mueller’s team, in which he pleaded guilty to a number of charges and agreed to coöperate with the investigation against his former boss. On Monday, he began his testimony in a courtroom in Alexandria, Virginia, where Manafort’s first trial is taking place. (There is a second trial scheduled in Washington, D.C.)This was the fifth day of the trial. Given the bitter controversy surrounding the scope of Mueller’s investigation into Russia’s attempts to disrupt the 2016 Presidential election, Manafort’s trial has inevitably sparked a great deal of speculation about how it fits in, or doesn’t fit in, to the broader picture. Manafort served as Donald Trump’s campaign manager for three months in 2016. During that time, Manafort, among other things, attended the now notorious Trump Tower meeting with a group of Russians who the Trump campaign believed had dirt on Hillary Clinton. Gates served as Trump’s deputy campaign manager under Manafort and also worked for Trump’s transition team, the group that worked to staff and prepare Trump’s incoming Administration in the weeks after Election Day. But so far, in Manafort’s trial, the focus has remained firmly on events that took place well in advance of Trump’s bid for the Presidency.On Monday, before calling Gates to the witness stand, the prosecutors finished up extracting information from one of Manafort’s tax accountants, Cindy Laporta, from the firm Kositzka, Wicks & Company, who had already testified that, in 2015, relying on instructions from Gates and Manafort, she falsified tax documents to save Manafort money and help him obtain bank loans. Then an expert on financial crimes at the Treasury Department, Paula Liss, explained to the jury that it is a crime to set up bank accounts overseas and not report them to the I.R.S. or other government agencies. Between 2011 and 2014, Liss said, neither Manafort nor his wife reported having any such accounts. A short time later, Gates stepped into the witness box.The reports from inside the courtroom all say that Gates avoided looking at Manafort, who was staring at him from the defense table with his arms folded. Instead, Gates kept his gaze fixed on the government’s lead prosecutor, Greg Andres, who made his bones prosecuting mobsters in the U.S. Attorney’s Office for the Eastern District of New York. After briefly guiding Gates through how he came to meet Manafort and work for him, Andres asked, “Were you involved in any criminal activity with Mr. Manafort?” Gates replied, “Yes.” Andres then asked, “Did you commit any crimes with Mr. Manafort?” Gates said, “Yes.”Andres pressed for details. Gates said that he conspired to falsify Manafort’s tax returns by lying to his accountants about his finances. He said that he had done that “at Mr. Manafort’s request.” He also said that he and Manafort had set up fifteen foreign bank accounts without disclosing them to the U.S. government, and that they failed to register Manafort as a foreign agent. “When asked why he had lied, Gates said he had done so at Manafort’s request,” the Washington Post’s excellent live blog reported. “Separately, Gates explained that Manafort had directed him to report money wired from his foreign bank accounts as loans, rather than as income, to reduce Manafort’s taxable income. By reporting it as a loan, Gates explained, Manafort could defer the amount of taxes he owed.”Before the day ended, Gates began answering more detailed questions about the work he and Manafort did in Ukraine, starting in 2007. He explained how the payments to Manafort’s firm were wired to shell companies in Cyprus, a Mediterranean island known for its lax banking laws and popularity with wealthy Russians. Once the money was there, Gates said, Manafort would move some of it to his U.S. accounts.Gates’s testimony, which will continue on Tuesday, strengthened the impression that Manafort’s lawyers will need to present a strong defense to save him. (That’s if Trump doesn’t issue him a Presidential pardon.) They have already signalled their strategy: blame everything on Gates, and argue that he is now lying to save his own skin. During his cross-examination of Laporta, Kevin Downing, Manafort’s lead attorney, sought to emphasize how much the accountant relied on information provided by Gates rather than Manafort, and he made a bit of headway there. But the defense team’s best moment of the day came when Gates was on the stand answering questions from the prosecution.Gates testified that, in addition to committing the crimes he copped to in his plea agreement, he embezzled money from Manafort’s consulting firm. “I added money to expense reports and created expense reports,” he said, estimating that the sums involved came to “several hundred thousand” dollars. Gates said that he also stole money from other people at Manafort’s firm, told lies to Mueller’s investigators initially, and lied in a civil case against Manafort. As part of his agreement with the government, he added, the prosecutors had agreed not to bring charges on these matters.It is customary for coöperating witnesses, at the start of their testimony, to make a clean breast of things, so they cannot get caught out on subsequent questioning by the defense. Still, Gates’s admissions will give Downing something to go on when he begins his cross-examination. Almost certainly, that will be the most dramatic bit of the trial. Whether it will affect the outcome remains to be seen.