A second woman came forward Sunday to accuse Supreme Court nominee Brett Kavanaugh of a decades-old sexual assault, the same day his first accuser, Christine Blasey Ford, committed to testifying about her own allegations before the Senate Judiciary Committee on Thursday. Here's what we know about Kavanaugh's second accuser, Deborah Ramirez, and her allegations: What Ramirez allegesRamirez alleged in an article in The New Yorker magazine that Kavanaugh exposed himself to her at a party when they were both freshmen at Yale University.According to Ramirez, she and Kavanaugh were among a small group of students playing a drinking game in a dorm room in the university's Lawrence Hall when the alleged incident occurred. Ramirez said the game quickly led to her intoxication. She recalls being on the floor and slurring her words when she alleges a male student exposed himself and shoved his penis in her face. She said she pushed the man away, touching him in the process. She alleged she remembered Kavanaugh pulling up his pants and laughing. Ramirez told The New Yorker the incident left her "embarrassed and ashamed and humiliated." More:Second woman accuses Brett Kavanaugh of sexual assault in New Yorker reportHazy memoriesRamirez told The New Yorker that she was initially reluctant to come forward because she was intoxicated when the alleged incident occurred and "her memories contained gaps." The New Yorker report said that at first she "was reluctant to characterize Kavanaugh’s role in the alleged incident with certainty. After six days of carefully assessing her memories and consulting with her attorney, Ramirez said that she felt confident enough" to come forward. The New Yorker said it was unable to identify any other witnesses who remember Kavanaugh attending the dorm-room party in question. More:Democrats ask Kavanaugh to withdraw as Republicans cast doubt on second assault allegationWho is Deborah Ramirez?Ramirez, 53, was raised a "devout Catholic" in Connecticut, according to The New Yorker. She currently lives in Boulder, Colorado. Ramirez studied sociology and psychology at Yale, where she graduated in 1987, along with Kavanaugh. NBC News reports that she is a board member and volunteer at Safehouse Progressive Alliance for Nonviolence, an organization that helps victims of domestic violence. She is a registered Democrat but denied that her allegation was politically motivated, The New Yorker reported.Ramirez's attorney Stanley Garnett told The New Yorker that she is "as careful and credible a witness as I’ve encountered in 36 years of practicing law."Kavanaugh denies the allegationIn response to the New Yorker story, the White House released a statement from Kavanaugh who said the incident alleged by Ramirez "did not happen" and called the allegation "a smear, plain and simple." "This alleged event from 35 years ago did not happen," Kavanaugh said. "The people who knew me then know that this did not happen, and have said so. This is a smear, plain and simple. I look forward to testifying on Thursday about the truth, and defending my good name – and the reputation for character and integrity I have spent a lifetime building – against these last-minute allegations."On Monday, Kavanaugh sent a letter to Senate Judiciary Committee Chairman Chuck Grassley, R-Iowa, and the Judiciary Committee's ranking Democrat Sen. Dianne Feinstein, D-Calif., in which he said Ramirez had made "a false and uncorroborated accusation." He denounced a "frenzy" to block his confirmation and a "coordinated effort to destroy my good name."Kavanaugh said the allegations "debase our public discourse" and are "a threat to any many or woman who wishes to serve our country." "Such grotesque and obvious character assassination – if allowed to succeed – will dissuade competent and good people of all political persuasions from service," he wrote. "I will not be intimidated into withdrawing from this process."The White House weighs inOn Monday, President Donald Trump said Kavanaugh is a " fine man with an unblemished past" and dismissed the "highly unsubstantiated statements from people represented by lawyers" as "totally political." "There is a chance this could be one of the single most unfair, unjust things to happen to a candidate for anything," Trump said. White House spokeswoman Kerri Kupec dismissed Ramirez's allegation as a "coordinated smear campaign," in a statement on Sunday. "This 35-year-old, uncorroborated claim is the latest in a coordinated smear campaign by the Democrats designed to tear down a good man," Kupec said. "This claim is denied by all who were said to be present and is wholly inconsistent with what many women and men who knew Judge Kavanaugh at the time in college say. The White House stands firmly behind Judge Kavanaugh."More:Read Christine Blasey Ford's letter detailing the alleged assault by Brett KavanaughKavanaugh's friends support him The New Yorker said it reached out to many of Ramirez and Kavanaugh's classmates to see if anyone could corroborate her allegation. The magazine said that two of the men Ramirez identified as being in the dorm room where the alleged incident took place, the wife of a third man she said was there, and six more classmates all signed a statement disputing Ramirez's story. "We can say with confidence that if the incident Debbie alleges ever occurred, we would have seen or heard about it – and we did not," the statement read. "The behavior she describes would be completely out of character for Brett. In addition, some of us knew Debbie long after Yale, and she never described this incident until Brett’s Supreme Court nomination was pending." More:Analysis: Brett Kavanaugh's confirmation sets up a high-stakes trade-off for the GOPSome recall hearing about the alleged incident One student, who chose to remain anonymous, told The New Yorker that he recalled being told about the alleged incident that night or the next day. He said he was "100 percent sure" that the person who told him about it identified Kavanaugh as the student who exposed himself. Another classmate at Yale, now-emergency room doctor Richard Oh, remembered a tearful female student describing the incident but he could not recall who the student was.According to The New Yorker, Ramirez told her mother and sister at the time that something upsetting had happened to her but did not share details with them because she was too embarrassed. Kavanaugh's roommate at the time of the alleged incident, James Roche, said he never witnessed Kavanaugh commit any act of sexual misconduct but he told The New Yorker that Kavanaugh was "frequently incoherently drunk." Roche became friends with Ramirez, whom he called "exceptionally honest and gentle." He said he could not "imagine her making this up" and said it was "believable" that Kavanaugh could have been involved in an incident like the one alleged by Ramirez. Senate Democrats call for a delay of Thursday hearing Senate Democrats are investigating Ramirez's allegation against Kavanaugh, The New Yorker reported, and some have called for a postponement of Kavanaugh's second confirmation hearing. California Sen. Dianne Feinstein, the top Democrat on the Senate Judiciary Committee, asked Chairman Chuck Grassley for "an immediate postponement of any further proceedings related to the nomination of Brett Kavanaugh" in a letter on Sunday. Feinstein called for an FBI investigation into Ramirez's allegation and repeated her call for an FBI investigation into the accusation by Christine Blasey Ford. Ford came forward a week before Ramirez with an allegation that a drunken Kavanaugh held her down and tried to remove her clothes at a party when they were both in high school. Ford committed on Sunday to testify before the Judiciary Committee on Thursday at 10 a.m. EDT. Committee Republicans have insisted that only Ford and Kavanaugh will be the only witnesses called. The New Yorker reported that Senate Democrats first learned of Ramirez's allegation from a civil rights lawyer. 