The third woman to accuse Supreme Court nominee Brett Kavanaugh of sexual misconduct dating to his teenage years described him as a "mean drunk" who pushed "girls against walls" during her first televised interview.Speaking to NBC News' Kate Snow in an interview that aired Monday night on MSNBC, Julie Swetnick also called Kavanaugh a "liar" for dismissing her allegations against him. In a sworn statement signed under penalty of perjury and released last week through her attorney, Michael Avenatti, Swetnick alleged Kavanaugh preyed on young women. In Monday's interview, Swetnick did not accuse Kavanaugh of assaulting her.More:Brett Kavanaugh was 'belligerent and aggressive' drinker, Yale classmate saysRelated:Brett Kavanaugh lied under oath, Sen. Patrick Leahy says. And he showed some evidence to prove it.Swetnick also strayed at times from her sworn statement during the sitdown interview, admitting she didn't know if Kavanaugh and his friend at the time, Mark Judge, would "spike" the punch at house parties in the early 1980s "so as to cause girls to lose their inhibitions and their ability to say 'no,'" an explosive allegation made in her three-page statement.“He was very aggressive. Very sloppy drunk. A mean drunk. I saw him go up to girls and paw on them and try to, you know, get a little too handsy touching them on private parts. I saw him try to shift clothing,” Swetnick said during the television interview. “I saw him push girls against walls. He would pretend to stumble and stumble into them and knock them against walls. He would push his body against hers.”Kavanaugh has labeled Swetnick's allegations as "ridiculous" and "from the Twilight Zone.During the interview, Snow played a portion of Kavanaugh's hearing from last week for Swetnick during which he told the Senate Judiciary Committee that there was no truth to the allegations made against him by Christine Blasey Ford, Deborah Ramirez and Swetnick.“I swear to God," Kavanaugh told the committee.After hearing his statement, Swetnick shook her head and said, "He's a liar."NBC News could not to confirm Swetnick’s allegations. Of four people she named attending the parties, one said he didn’t recall, another was dead and two others didn’t respond.Two days before he released Swetnick's name and sworn statement, Avenatti told reporters in Los Angeles that his client had multiple witnesses to corroborate her story and called her "100 percent credible."In her sworn statement, Swetnick, 55, alleged Kavanaugh was among a group of boys who would doctor the punch at parties to "cause girls to become inebriated and disoriented so they could then be 'gang raped' in a side room or bedroom by a 'train' of numerous boys."When asked by Snow if she had witnessed Kavanaugh spike drinks, however, Swetnick said only that she saw him "around the punch containers" and had seen him "giving red cups to quite a few girls during that time frame.""I don't know what he did," she added. "But I saw him by them, yes."In her written statement, Swetnick said she had "a firm recollection of seeing boys" — including Kavanaugh — "lined up outside rooms at many of these parties waiting for their 'turn' with a girl inside the room."More:Here are the five allegations made against Supreme Court nominee Brett KavanaughOpinion:Brett Kavanaugh investigation should be free of handcuffsBut, in her interview with Snow, Swetnick said the boys were not "lined up" but "huddled by the doors."At the party in which she said he was sexually assaulted — "My body was violated. My soul was broken," she told Snow — Swetnick said she couldn't single out Kavanaugh as one of her attackers.“I cannot specifically say that he was one of the ones who assaulted me,” Swetnick said.Swetnick said she told her mother and reported the incident to Montgomery County police. Her mother and the police officer who took the report are both dead, and the department told NBC News it could take weeks to retrieve records about the incident.President Donald Trump has remained supportive of his Supreme Court pick, telling reporters on Monday that he believed the ongoing FBI investigation into Kavanaugh's background would be "a good thing."Also Monday, Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell said the full Senate would vote on Kavanaugh's nomination this week.