VideotranscripttranscriptCanada’s New Marijuana Economy: Meet the Winners and LosersAfter 95 years of prohibition, Canada has legalized marijuana. We met with buyers, sellers, growers and students to hear what they had to say.“We are right on the eve of the legalization of trees in Canada. At 12 o’clock midnight, you can smoke what you want, take hits from the bong. Canadians, make some noise!” It’s a new era for Canadians — the full legalization of marijuana across the country. It’s been legal to consume cannabis here for medical reasons since 2001. But now, anyone in Canada over the legal age can get high. And that means Canada’s booming weed business is about to get a whole lot bigger. We went to see some of the producers who are set to take advantage of this opportunity. “It’s got kind of a citrusy and pine smell both at the same time. This is one of the Kushes. It’s got more of a turpentine, maybe a little more earthy smell. This is a very popular strain for us. We call this deep purple, very fruity.” Warren Bravo was a co-founder of Green Relief, a medical marijuana company that is now well-placed to enter the recreational space. He’s aiming to increase production 20-fold over the next year and a half. And that’s nothing compared to Canada’s top marijuana producer: Tweed Inc., a brand of big-time operation, Canopy Growth. One vault here can hold about $150 million worth of cannabis. “Yeah, so in this facility, on this side that we’re touring here, we have 24 flowering rooms and then about another 24 on the other side as well. This is, at the end of the day, what all of the fuss and excitement is about, I guess. When we reached out the first time, I think, you know, the New York Stock Exchange probably, you know, rightly said, ‘No way.’ You know, we’re not having a cannabis company. And then that education process started. And if you try to break down these barriers, and demonstrate we’re a normal company creating a normal product like anyone else.” And it’s a product that’s becoming a formal field of study, fast. “We’re running the only postgraduate certificate program in cannabis in Canada.” Bill MacDonald teaches a class of 24 highly dedicated students, that includes a former police officer. “It did take some reconciliation because I was, obviously, on the other side. But it’s in society. It’s out there, now. So, if we’re going to have it and it’s going to be here, let’s control it properly.” That’s the thing — for people who were hoping for a free-for-all and one-love openness, it’s a disappointment. “Cannabis is going to be legalized in certain contexts, but it’s also going to be very heavily regulated. And my concern is that people don’t recognize the extent to which it will still, in certain contexts, be illegal. And that might bring them in conflict with the law.” “African-Canadian people, our community is very afraid to now come out and actually be a part of this market, because we’ve been criminalized for so long.” Noni Haynes is part of a group leading a discussion on new cannabis laws at a local community center. “And who is making money from the weed? Not the average person.” “I don’t know if you don’t know, we live in a capitalist society. And, you know, within capitalism, anything goes.” “That’s a very good point. I mean, now is the opportunity. If you capitalize on that, you have your business, or you grow your business, you expand your clientele. And you treat it like an actual corporation.” A few days before legalization, we came to a kind of marijuana farmer’s market in Toronto, at Planet Paradise. In the past few years, this place has been tolerated by police. But now, fines have been ramped up, and the organizers here are shutting shop, worried about a crackdown. “We’re planning on not really having anything like this till we see where the law is going to go. Because we don’t want to have a bunch of issues ourselves, right? So we figured we’d have one last hurrah, just to get people together and smoke.” We travelled to an indigenous Mohawk territory, another place where marijuana is openly sold illegally. There are over 40 unlicensed dispensaries here. Jamie Kunkel owns one of them, Smoke Signals. He’s not worried. “The amount of customers that we go through, I believe, is going to increase because of the system that they’ve set up. They’re not providing the Canadian constituency with a reasonable place to purchase this plant. I personally think they’ve set themselves up for failure.” Jamie is pointing to the fact that there are no legal brick-and-mortar dispensaries in the province of Ontario. Lawful purchases must be made online, and those do not include any of the cannabis-infused products sold here. “Milk chocolate espresso beans, milk chocolate almonds. Jeez, you know, I was really looking forward and hoping it was going to be the salsa.” Canada is only the second country in the world to legalize cannabis after Uruguay. But it’s the first major economy to run this experiment. And whatever it leads to, Canada will be leading the way.After 95 years of prohibition, Canada has legalized marijuana. We met with buyers, sellers, growers and students to hear what they had to say.Oct. 17, 2018MONTREAL — Canada on Wednesday became the first major world economy to legalize recreational marijuana, beginning a national experiment that will alter the country’s social, cultural and economic fabric, and present the nation with its biggest public policy challenge in decades.Across the country, as government pot retailers opened from Newfoundland to British Columbia, jubilant Canadians waited for hours in line to buy the first state-approved joints. For many, it was a seminal moment, akin to the ending of Prohibition in the United States in the 1930s.ImageCredit...Ian Willms/Getty ImagesIt was also an unlikely unifier, coming at a time when Canada has been buffeted by bruising trade talks with the United States and has seen its prime minister, Justin Trudeau, repeatedly ridiculed by President Trump. Canada is the second country in the world, after Uruguay, to legalize marijuana.“I have never felt so proud to be Canadian,” said Marco Beaulieu, 29, a janitor, as he waited with friends outside a government cannabis retailer in the east end of Montreal. “Canada is once again a progressive global leader. We have gay rights, feminism, abortion rights, and now we can smoke pot without worrying police are going to arrest us.”Canadians broadly support marijuana legalization, but amid the euphoria, there was also caution.“Legalization of cannabis is the largest public policy shift this country has experienced in the past five decades,” said Mike Farnworth, British Columbia’s minister of public safety.“It’s an octopus with many tentacles, and there are many unknowns,” he added. “I don’t think that when the federal government decided to legalize marijuana it thought through all of the implications.”ImageCredit...Chris Wattie/ReutersIn a stinging editorial published on Monday, for example, the Canadian Medical Association Journal called the government’s legalization plan an “uncontrolled experiment in which the profits of cannabis producers and tax revenues are squarely pitched against the health of Canadians.”It called on the government to promise to change the law if it leads to increased marijuana use.Under Canada’s new federal cannabis act, adults will be allowed to possess, carry and share with other adults up to 30 grams of dried cannabis, enough to roll roughly 60 regular-size joints. They will also be permitted a maximum of four homegrown marijuana plants per household in most provinces.[Yes, Canadians can grow their own, but not in every province. No, it won’t be legal for kids to smoke. Here’s what you need to know as Canada legalizes marijuana.]Marijuana for medical purposes has been legal in Canada since 2001, and about 330,000 Canadians, including cancer patients, are registered to receive it from licensed producers.Pre-rolled joints, fresh or dried marijuana flowers, and cannabis oil are all permitted under the law. Cannabis edibles — like pot-infused jelly beans, peanut butter and coffee — won’t be legal for another year.According to Canada’s national statistics office, 4.9 million Canadians used cannabis last year and consumed more than 20 grams of marijuana per person.ImageCredit...Chris Wattie/ReutersOn Wednesday morning, the government announced that it would introduce legislation to make it easier for Canadians who had been convicted of possessing small amounts of marijuana to obtain a pardon.[The New York Times Canada bureau chief, Catherine Porter, was live at a pot lounge in Toronto as Canadians celebrated the legalization of recreational cannabis use.]While the government is not offering a blanket amnesty, Ralph Goodale, the public safety minister, said at a news conference in Ottawa that as “a matter of basic fairness,” the government would seek to end the minimum waiting period of five years to apply for a pardon as well as waiving the fee of 631 Canadian dollars.The federal government has left the country’s 13 provinces and territories to carry out the new legislation and set their own rules, creating a patchwork of regulations. Among many open questions are how the police will test drivers who may be high and how employers deal with employees who smoke before coming to work.Bernard Le Foll, a specialist in addiction at the Center for Addiction and Mental Health in Toronto, a leading teaching hospital and research organization, said that although the center supported legalization, he was concerned that the public dissemination of information about risks had been insufficient.“Cannabis is not a benign substance,” Dr. Le Foll said. “There is a clear risk of addiction, and it can produce significant mental health issues if used by the wrong kind of people.”ImageCredit...Chris Donovan for The New York TimesHe added, “It took decades for the public to understand the risks of cigarettes, and the legalization of cannabis has taken place only over a few years.”Jean-Sébastien Fallu, an associate professor of applied psychology and a specialist in addiction at Université de Montréal, said he particularly worried about the effects on young people.“We don’t want young people to feel stigmatized, for example, if they don’t use cannabis,” Professor Fallu said.The legalization of cannabis has led to a so-called “green rush,” with licensed cannabis growers pressing to get a foothold in what is expected to be a $5 billion industry (6.5 billion Canadian dollars) by 2020, buttressed by the expected arrival of thousands of pot tourists from the United States.[Companies are clamoring to join in the next get-rich-quick hope — the Canadian marijuana industry.]After months of soaring share prices, though, the first day of legal marijuana sales initially saw steep drops in the value of marijuana stocks. That reversed somewhat in the afternoon, leaving the largest companies’ shares down just slightly by the end of trading. Many analysts say the value of legalization was long ago priced to the shares’ value.ImageCredit...Alana Paterson for The New York TimesAt the government cannabis store in Montreal — one of 12 in Quebec — a line stretched across a long city block on Wednesday morning. Some of the hundreds of people had waited since 3:30 a.m., anticipating the store’s 10 a.m. opening.Kate Guihan, 29, a beautician, said she planned to celebrate the “historic moment” on Wednesday night with several puffs on a joint. The low cost of government pot, she added, was a big draw for her, along with the fact that legal marijuana was screened and devoid of contaminants.In Halifax, the mood was similarly buoyant.“We are witnessing history,” said Shawn King, the host of a countdown to legalization on a local radio station. “Marijuana prohibition is ending after 96 years. There’s going to be a generation of people that never knew it was ever banned.”Inside a government retailer in Halifax that looked like an Apple store, shoppers browsed for products including “Ghost Train” and “Lemon Skunk.” Bongs were on display. Some shoppers bought weed, and others accessorized.Others across Canada were ordering pot online from government stores.As online demand soared, stocks quickly ran out, creating fears of marijuana shortages.In New Brunswick, the government cannabis agency provided a step-by-step guide on its website on how to roll a joint.VideotranscripttranscriptCanadian Ministers Announce Marijuana LegalizationAt a news conference, Ralph Goodale, Canada’s public safety minister, said the government would introduce legislation to make it easier for Canadians convicted of possessing small amounts of marijuana to obtain a pardon.“Today, our government has delivered on our promise to legalize, strictly regulate and restrict access to cannabis, in order to better keep cannabis out of the hands of our youth and to keep profits away from criminals. We know from experience that the criminal prohibition that was in effect for a century in this country has failed our kids and our communities. It has led to a situation in which our children use cannabis currently at the highest rate of any country in the world.” “Now that the laws on cannabis have changed, individuals who previously acquired criminal records for simple possession of cannabis should be allowed to shed the burden and the stigma of that record. So today, I am announcing that the government of Canada intends to present legislation which, when enacted, will allow these individuals to apply for a pardon as long as they have completed their sentence. There will be no further waiting period and no fee.”At a news conference, Ralph Goodale, Canada’s public safety minister, said the government would introduce legislation to make it easier for Canadians convicted of possessing small amounts of marijuana to obtain a pardon.CreditCredit...Adrian Wyld/The Canadian Press, via Associated Press[Want more Canadian coverage in your inbox? Subscribe to our weekly Canada Letter newsletter.]The stated rationale for legalizing cannabis was to tame an illegal multibillion-dollar trade. But from Toronto to Winnipeg to Vancouver, hundreds of illegal shops have indicated that they have no intention of shutting down, and the black market supply chain remains deeply entrenched.In Toronto on Wednesday, revelers — some wearing T-shirts that said “Weed Won” — packed a cannabis lounge in the city’s bohemian Kensington Market, where some were smoking black market pot to the sound of reggae music.Toronto had 92 illegal dispensaries the day before legalization, though 56 were shut down Wednesday afternoon. One had a “For Rent” sign inside its window. Others were shuttered.In Vancouver, dozens of illegal marijuana dispensaries defied the new law by selling, among other things, outlawed edible cannabis and marijuana-infused face creams.Some illegal shops in both cities are hoping to get licensed.Chief Constable Adam Palmer of the Vancouver Police Department, who is also the president of the Canadian Association of Chiefs of Police, said this week that at a time of limited resources, policing marijuana would not suddenly become law enforcement’s primary concern.“Fentanyl kills 11 Canadians a day,” he said, referring to the powerful synthetic opioid that is a public health scourge in some cities like Vancouver. “Marijuana does not.”He added, “I don’t expect a big crackdown on day one.”