Donald Trump propelled himself into the White House in 2016, in large part by stoking racist fears about non-white immigrants, a key feature of the speech announcing his candidacy (“Rapists!” “Criminals!” “Drug dealers!”). And while he’s never strayed from the hateful rhetoric he knows his supporters love, as president he’s had to make room on his plate for other issues, too, like self-defeating trade wars with China, possible real wars with North Korea, one-sided feuds with pro athletes, and at least four to six hours of cable news a day. But with make-or-break midterm elections looming—and the very real possibility that Republicans will lose the House—the president has redoubled his efforts to get the base all riled up about scary brown people, essentially suggesting that he’s the only thing standing between them and Democrats enacting a new policy wherein for every migrant allowed to stay in the country, three U.S. citizens have to go live in Guatemala.This began last week, when Trump threatened to cut off aid to countries whose citizens attempted to cross the southern border, and it was further amplified on Monday when he tweeted—with no evidence whatsoever—that “criminals and unknown Middle Easterners are mixed” into the migrant caravan moving toward the U.S., calling the (fake) situation a “national emergy” [sic]. And now, there’s this:President Trump is considering taking executive action to bar migrants, including asylum seekers, from entering the country at the southern border, according to people familiar with the plan . . . Three people briefed on the plan said it . . . would invoke broad presidential powers to bar foreigners from entering the country for national-security reasons—under the same section of immigration law that underpinned the travel ban—to block Central American migrants from crossing the southern border, they said. At the same time, the administration would put in place new rules that would disqualify migrants who cross the border in between ports of entry from claiming asylum, according to those briefed.Mr. Trump is weighing the new measures as he prepares to order 800 to 1,000 United States Army troops to help secure the southern border, Defense Department officials said on Thursday.Jim Mattis, the defense secretary, was expected to sign papers in the coming days to send the troops. They will include engineers to help with the construction of tents and fencing, doctors for medical support, and potentially some personnel to operate drones along the border, the officials said, speaking on the condition of anonymity because the deployment had not yet been finished.American immigration law says that people arriving at ports of entry on the United States border have a right to seek asylum, as do those apprehended crossing the border without authorization, if they are able to demonstrate a “credible fear” of returning home. But President Border Wall, who has no idea how the law actually works, has painted those fleeing violence and persecution, and those simply thumbing their noses at immigration laws for yuks, as one and the same. “To those in the Caravan, turnaround, [sic] we are not letting people into the United States illegally,” Trump wrote on Twitter Thursday. “Go back to your Country and if you want, apply for citizenship like millions of others are doing!” (As many have pointed out, it’s unlikely that the Spanish-speaking asylum seekers have the Wi-Fi necessary to read this message, which almost makes it appear as though it was actually addressed to his base.)Human-rights and immigrant advocacy groups have unsurprisingly panned Trump’s transparent attempt to instill fear in voters just before the midterm elections. “The approach of a caravan of migrants that includes refugees fleeing persecution and violence is not a crisis, but President Trump is yet again spreading hatred and fear, hoping to score political points by making Americans fear refugees,” Mike Breen, the chief executive of Human Rights First, told The New York Times. Meanwhile, when asked if “there was any scenario [in which] people [who] force their way across the border could be shot at,” Homeland Security Secretary Kirstjen Nielsen told Fox News, “We do not have any intention right now to shoot at people,” emphasis ours, because that sure sounds like a roundabout way of saying Some people might get shot—who knows!If you would like to receive the Levin Report in your inbox daily, click here to subscribe.Trump’s trade war is totally going according to plan! Nothing is f--ked!When Donald Trump launched his trade war with China, he promised that the pain of slapping tariffs on billions of dollars worth of imports—and the ensuing retaliatory levies on U.S. goods—would all be worth it for the avalanche of jobs to which the putative measures would lead. And for once in his presidency, he may have been right! There’s a good chance new jobs will come out of all of this . . . in China. Per *The New York Times:*BMW, the largest exporter of cars from the United States, has already moved some production of its popular X3 sport utility vehicle—once made exclusively in Spartanburg, S.C.—to a factory in Shenyang, China. Analysts expect the German automaker to also move some production of its larger X5.By shifting production, BMW can avoid China’s punitive tariffs on cars imported from the United States, which have ensnared foreign automakers with large American factories. It could also insulate BMW if Mr. Trump follows through on his threat to tax imported vehicles and parts, a move that would further increase the cost of building cars in the United States and selling them abroad.The Chinese government, unsurprisingly, is all for this expansion, letting BMW up its stake in a joint venture from 50 percent to 75 percent, “an unprecedented majority share for a foreign carmaker.” Other car companies that could follow suit include Mercedes-Benz, which employs roughly 4,000 workers at a factory in Alabama; and Volvo, which opened a plant in South Carolina in June. South Carolina, you might recall, was all about Donald Trump back in November 2016. But perhaps that may change! “People vote with their pocketbooks,” H. David Britt, a member of the Spartanburg County Council, told the Times. “I’m not suggesting South Carolina would go Democrat, but when people start losing jobs, a lot can happen.”The president is super-mad about the bombs sent to prominent Democrats and members of the mediaYou can tell by the way he calls out supporters for chanting about one of the targets, telling them that such a thing is totally inappropriate in any setting but particularly at the White House, and that they really need to get over their deranged ideas about George Soros being some kind of liberal boogeyman, as it leads to crackpots putting bombs in people’s mailboxes. Oh wait, that never happened:But seriously, Trump is really upset about these acts of violenceBecause they might cost Republicans the election:Elsewhere!Trend Followers Stung in Hedge Fund “Bloodbath” as Rout Deepens (BloombergFingerprint leads to federal charges against Florida man Sayoc for bombs sent Obama, Clinton, others (CNBCG.D.P. Grows 3.5 Percent on Consumer Vigor but Investment Slows (W.S.J.Trump Reviewing Tariffs on Canada Steel and Aluminum, Craft Says (BloombergTesla Faces Deepening Criminal Probe Over Whether It Misstated Production Figures (W.S.JAt Netflix, Radical Transparency and Blunt Firings Unsettle the Ranks (W.S.J.“Fortnite” creator Epic Games raises $1.25 billion from KKR, others (ReutersThe U.S. Secretly Halted JPMorgan’s Growth for Years (BloombergJeff Bezos loses as much as $14 billion in personal wealth as Amazon’s stock tanks (CNBCTrump Wants to Make It O.K. to Call People “Beautiful” and “Handsome” Again (The CutMore Great Stories from Vanity Fair— Uber wants to be the next Amazon, but it could end up the next Yahoo— Meet the fake Saudi prince with a 30-year plan— We talked to the most elite counterterrorism unit in the world— Why Michael Bloomberg’s massive donations might not actually help him be president— Where is Obama?Looking for more? Sign up for our daily Hive newsletter and never miss a story.