CHARLOTTE, N.C. -- The Democratic Party unveiled its formal 2012 platform on Monday night. And like its Republican counterpart, it is heavy on broad philosophical strokes about the direction in which the party wants to take the country, short on policy specifics and carefully worded on some of the more contentious issues. It also is peppered with numerous shots at Mitt Romney, none more so than on the issue of insourcing. "The Democratic Party believes in insourcing so that America can out-build the rest of the world again," the platform reads. "We want to cut tax breaks for companies that are shipping jobs overseas and for special interests, and instead offer tax breaks to companies that are investing right here in the United States of America, betting on American workers who are making American products we sell to the world that are stamped with three proud words: Made in America.""But the Republican Party has nominated a man whose firm invested in companies that were pioneers of outsourcing -- and whose plans would actually encourage outsourcing by eliminating all taxes on the foreign profits of U.S. companies," it adds, for some partisan measure. It is, in short, a political document. But one worth reading, if only to get a sense of where the party wants to position itself heading into the final weeks of the 2012 campaign. The full platform is below. Let us know what you think are the interesting parts. Below are a few of the toplines:Health Care: The party touts the achievements of the Affordable Care Act but pledges to keep building up reforms. We will continue to stand up to Republicans working to take away the benefits and protections that are already helping millions of Americans every day. We refuse to go back to the days when health insurance companies had unchecked power to cancel your health policy, deny you coverage, or charge women more than men. At the same time, the Affordable Care Act is not the end of efforts to improve health care for all Americans. Democrats will continue to fight for a strong health care workforce with an emphasis on primary care.Medicare: The party appears undeterred by fact-checkers who claim it's unfair to say Republicans will end the program as it's currently conceived. The Republican budget plan would end Medicare as we know it. Democrats adamantly oppose any efforts to privatize or voucherize Medicare...Taxes: Democrats join Republicans in embracing the groundwork for corporate tax reform. We Democrats support lowering the corporate tax rate while closing unnecessary loopholes, and lowering rates even further for manufacturers who create good jobs at home.Unions: The Democrats give a hug to Big Labor.Democrats believe that the right to organize and collectively bargain is a fundamental American value.Immigration Reform: The party reaffirms its commitment to a comprehensive plan beyond the Dream Act. Democrats know there is broad consensus to repair that system and strengthen our economy, and that the country urgently needs comprehensive immigration reform that brings undocumented immigrants out of the shadows and requires them to get right with the law, learn English, and pay taxes in order to get on a path to earn citizenship.Arts Funding: Democrats ignore Romney's insistence that these things should be cut from the budget. Democrats are proud of our support for arts funding ... We will continue to support public funding for the National Endowment for the Arts, for the National Endowment for the Humanities, and for programs providing art and music education in primary and secondary schools. Abortion: Democrats support both the right to choose and the funding of providers.Democrats will continue to stand up to Republican efforts to defund Planned Parenthood health centers.We oppose any and all efforts to weaken or undermine that right. Abortion is an intensely personal decision between a woman, her family, her doctor, and her clergy; there is no place for politicians or government to get in the wayGay Marriage: As expected, the party takes the plunge, offering its first formal support for same-sex marriage rights. We support marriage equality and support the movement to secure equal treatment under law for same-sex couples. We also support the freedom of churches and religious entities to decide how to administer marriage as a religious sacrament without government interference.Guns: The party supports "regulation" in theory, albeit in carefully worded terms.We believe that the right to own firearms is subject to reasonable regulation. We understand the terrible consequences of gun violence; it serves as a reminder that life is fragile, and our time here is limited and precious. We believe in an honest, open national conversation about firearms.Most Iconic Photos Of Obama&#039;s First Term