  The Trump administration lifted sanctions Wednesday on three companies partially controlled by a Russian oligarch tied to President Vladimir Putin — but also slapped new restrictions on other Russians who worked for the same oligarch.  The mixed message came on the heels of the administration announcing it will end U.S. military involvement in Syria, a move critics say will play right into the hands of Putin and the war-torn country’s brutal leader Bashar al-Assad, who is backed by the Kremlin.  Treasury Department Secretary Steven Mnuchin said the administration is terminating sanctions on Russian aluminum giant Rusal, its parent company En+ and energy producer ESE because all three companies have “substantially” reduced Oleg Deripaska’s ownership stake.  Deripaska, who founded Rusal and is closely tied to both Putin and former Trump campaign chairman Paul Manafort, will remain sanctioned over his role in the Kremlin’s interference in the 2016 U.S. election, occupation of Ukraine’s Crimea and support for Assad.   “Treasury sanctioned these companies because of their ownership and control by sanctioned Russian oligarch Oleg Deripaska, not for the conduct of the companies themselves,” Mnuchin said. “These companies have committed to significantly diminish Deripaska’s ownership and sever his control. The companies will be subject to ongoing compliance and will face severe consequences if they fail to comply.”  The stripped sanctions barred Rusal from trading with numerous countries and resulted in skyrocketing aluminum prices worldwide.   Under the new deal, Deripaska’s direct ownership in Rusal — the world’s second-largest aluminum producer — will drop to less than 0.01%, according to the Treasury Department. However, he will still retain about 45% ownership stake in En+, the parent company, which raised eyebrows from some sanctions experts.  “I don’t understand the logic at all,” tweeted Michael McFaul, the U.S. ambassador to Russia under the second Obama administration. “Makes me wonder if there is more to this story.”  Other experts had a different take.  “I think this is pretty impressive,” said Brian O’Toole, who served as a senior adviser in the Treasury office that administered U.S. sanctions between 2009 and 2017. “People can quibble over whether (Deripaska’s) stake is too much, but as an overall effort it’s pretty good because the Rusal sanctions caused all sorts of economic problems for the U.S. and Europe.”  Separately, Mnuchin said new sanctions are being imposed against 16 Russian intelligence officers and a Russian company over their involvement in attempting to sway the 2016 election in President Trump’s favor and their role in the attempted assassination of a former Russian spy in London earlier this year.  One of the sanctioned intelligence agents is specifically being punished for “having acted on behalf of” Deripaska, according to the Treasury Department.   The administration has taken a hawkish stance against Russia, sanctioning 256 individuals and entities tied to the Kremlin since Trump took office over malicious activity across the world.  However, while the administration is taking one view, the President himself appears to have taken another.  Trump, whose campaign remains under investigation over possible collusion with the Kremlin during the 2016 election, has on several occasions given Putin the benefit of the doubt and even openly disputes his own intelligence community’s findings that the Russian regime interfered in the 2016 election in a deliberate attempt to elect him and damage Hillary Clinton.  The President also has loose ties to Deripaska.  Manafort, Trump’s criminally convicted former campaign chief, loaned millions of dollars from Deripaska and worked with him on pro-Kremlin lobbying efforts. In 2006, Deripaska signed a $10 million contract with Manafort for a U.S. lobbying project that Manafort said would “greatly benefit the Putin Government,” according to court documents.   Russia  Europe  Vladimir Putin  Donald Trump  Paul Manafort  Steven Mnuchin  Oleg Deripaska  Bashar Assad  