    
Despite a series of Wall Street tumbles in recent weeks and gloomy forecasts from economists of another recession next year, Friday’s numbers show that the economy is continuing to expand. | Jeff Kowalsky/AFP/Getty Images The economy added 312,000 jobs in December, the government reported Friday, catapulting markets and signaling and that President Donald Trump's trade war with China has yet to pinch booming job creation.
Job growth nearly doubled from November, when the economy added 176,000 jobs. Wages rose with average hourly earnings up 3.2 percent over the previous year, up from 3.1 percent in November. It was the third consecutive month that wages rose more than 3 percent, strengthening evidence that the tightening economy is delivering bigger payouts to workers. The numbers prompted Dow Jones Industrial Average to rise nearly 700 points before noon, the latest in a series of dizzying swings on Wall Street.
Unemployment ticked up slightly, to 3.9 percent, up from 3.7 percent in November, as more people began looking for work. The labor force participation rate in December was 63.1 percent in December, up slightly from 62.9 in November, signaling that rising wages might be starting to draw prospective workers from the sidelines. "More individuals moving into the labor force is welcome news as job creators look to fill seven million open jobs," said Labor Secretary Alexander Acosta in a written statement.
The numbers give Trump a much-needed reprieve from the clamor of a government shutdown and a testy stock market that has deprived him of one of his favorite talking points.
“GREAT JOBS NUMBERS JUST ANNOUNCED!“ the president tweeted. Despite a series of Wall Street tumbles in recent weeks and gloomy forecasts from economists of another recession next year, Friday’s numbers show that the economy is continuing to expand.
“The fundamentals of the economy haven’t degraded,” said Dan North, chief economist at Euler Hermes North America.
The numbers came the same day Federal Reserve Chairman Jerome Powell said he wouldn’t resign if asked by Trump. The president has criticized Powell in recent weeks for raising interest rates to keep inflation in check. The Fed is expected to raise rates twice in 2019, continuing a pattern the past five quarters. Powell, seeking to quiet investors in Atlanta on Friday, said the Fed would be willing to “significantly” shift its policies to stabilize the economy if necessary. “We wouldn’t hesitate to make a change,” Powell said. Economic analysts have predicted for months that the tight labor market will cause job growth to slacken, but the December numbers demonstrate the opposite. The prospect of an economic contraction has been of particular concern to Trump’s 2020 advisers, who are all too aware that the last two one-term presidents, George H.W. Bush and Jimmy Carter, lost reelection during or immediately after economic downturns.
There are signs that Trump’s tariffs are starting to wear on the economy. Apple this week scaled back its revenue estimates for the first time in 16 years as iPhone sales slowed in China, rattling investors who view the tech giant as a bellwether for the global economy. While the tariffs haven’t deterred job growth, economists note that that the December data were collected before stock market turmoil worsened.
“I’m not being lulled into a false sense of security,” said Ian Shepherdson, the chief economist at Pantheon Macroeconomics. “There are plenty of storm clouds out there that raise concern.” 