    Obama asks voters to trust in his ideas for the future. | Jason Lee/ for POLITICO CHARLOTTE, N.C. — President Barack Obama asked the nation Thursday to choose a “harder” path to long-term economic prosperity, outlining grand economic promises for a second term in office and describing the 2012 election as a vote on the nature of American citizenship.  Obama’s acceptance speech at the Democratic National Convention concluded three days of speeches from Democratic leaders, who told voters that their party – and only their party – could be trusted to look out for the interests of the suffering middle class.  ( Also on POLITICO: Obama's DNC speech text)  And make no mistake, the president and his supporters repeatedly acknowledged that voters are suffering, that the economy is far from fully healed and that the country does not currently sense that it is on the doorstep of a better future.  In a tone that marked a dramatic departure from Obama’s last presidential campaign – and from the 2004 convention speech that made him a national political phenomenon – Democrats also argued in the starkest language yet that Republican Mitt Romney is an out of touch plutocrat who lacks simple patriotism.  “America, I never said this journey would be easy, and I won’t promise that now,” Obama said. “Yes, our path is harder – but it leads to a better place. Yes our road is longer – but we travel it together. We draw strength from our victories, and we learn from our mistakes, but we keep our eyes fixed on that distant horizon.”  Obama attempted to strike a balance between connecting with voters in the midst of a protracted economic downturn, and offering an optimistic vision for the future. He has struggled throughout the 2012 campaign to deliver a forward-looking economic vision and break away from a debate focused on an unemployment rate stuck persistently above 8 percent.  ( Also on POLITICO: Full coverage of the DNC)  It’s too soon to say whether Obama accomplished that goal tonight. At the very least, he coupled an ideological vision for the country with more specific benchmarks for success: a million new manufacturing jobs by the end of 2016; a sharp reduction in oil imports; 600,000 jobs in the natural gas industry; 100,000 new math and science teachers; and new controls on the rising cost of college tuition.  The mechanics of achieving those goals were largely absent from the speech, but Obama said – not for the first time – that he would aim to extract sacrifices from the wealthiest citizens and special interests in order to bring about widely shared economic gains.  Throughout Obama’s address and the evening as a whole, there was an undercurrent of America-first triumphalism, and a combination of implicit and explicit charges that Republicans don’t share that brand of nationalism.  ( PHOTOS: Scenes from the Democratic convention)  “I’ve signed trade agreements that are helping our companies sell more goods to millions of new customers – goods that are stamped with three proud words: Made in America,” Obama said. “Now you have a choice: we can give more tax breaks to corporations that ship jobs overseas, or we can start rewarding companies that open new plants and train new workers and create new jobs here, in the United States of America,”  Obama took time in his speech to mock his challengers and question their readiness for the job of president and vice president. In an allusion to Romney’s bumbling summer trip overseas, Obama joked: “You might not be ready for diplomacy with Beijing if you can’t visit the Olympics without insulting our closest ally. The sharpest attacks on the GOP, and the most unabashedly chest-thumping recitations of the Obama administration’s accomplishments, came from the lineup of speakers who preceded the president.  Before Obama took the stage, Democrats from former Michigan Gov. Jennifer Granholm to Massachusetts Sen. John Kerry questioned Romney’s commitment to a struggling American middle class. And they, too, delivered a nationalist message that presented Obama as the leader the country needs in a difficult time.  Vice President Joe Biden invoked the same concept of shared, determined progress, telling delegates that the country “proved itself” when it faced “the deepest economic crisis in our lifetimes.”  In an impassioned speech, at times raising his voice to a yell, Biden pointed to the federal auto bailout and the killing of Osama bin Laden as two moments when Obama proved his own character. Romney, Biden charged, has not shown the strength of character and will required for the presidency.  ”Conviction. Resolve. Barack Obama. That’s what saved the automobile industry. Conviction. Resolve. Barack Obama,” Biden said in a heavy cadence. “You never quit on America. And you deserve a President who will never quit on you.”  Vowing to stand for “the private sector, not the privileged sector,” Biden charged the Republican presidential ticket with peddling pessimism to the American people.  “One more thing that our Republican opponents are just dead wrong about: America is not in decline,” Biden said, repeating: “America is not in decline.”  To an almost eerie degree, the arguments made from the stage Thursday echoed the savage contrast message Republicans delivered against John Kerry in the 2004 presidential election. Except now, it wasn’t Kerry with his patriotism on trial. This time, the Massachusetts legislator drew roars from the partisan crowd with a chest-thumping account of Obama’s national security record: “Ask Osama bin Laden if he is better off now than he was four years ago.”  In an especially cutting attack, Kerry blasted Romney — his fellow Bay Stater — for failing to mention the war in Afghanistan and U.S. troops overseas in his remarks last week to the Republican National Convention.  “No nominee for president should ever fail in the midst of a war to pay tribute to our troops overseas in his acceptance speech,” Kerry said. “Mitt Romney was talking about America. They are on the front lines every day defending America and they deserve our thanks.”  Granholm drew cheers and jeers from the crowd with an animated speech accusing Romney of selling out the U.S. auto industry. Romney’s so rich, she said, that he wants to build elevators for his own cars but doesn’t care if “workers get the shaft.” Former Florida Gov. Charlie Crist, the ex-Republican, accused his onetime party of refusing to cooperate with Obama even when it was in the best interests of the nation.  Biden assailed Romney’s allegedly deficient loyalty to his country. Teeing up a popular attack line this week, Biden told the crowd that Romney pledge to “take a jobs tour” as president. “Well, with all his support for outsourcing — it’s going to have to be a foreign trip,” Biden said.  The Romney campaign answered the relentless stream of criticism with a terse statement issued midway through Obama’s speech, restating the basic premise of Romney’s White House bid: that Obama has had his chance to lead and has not earned another four years in office.  “Tonight President Obama laid out the choice in this election, making the case for more of the same policies that haven’t worked for the past four years. He offered more promises, but he hasn’t kept the promises he made four years ago,” Romney campaign manager Matt Rhoades said. “Americans will hold President Obama accountable for his record – they know they’re not better off and that it’s time to change direction. Mitt Romney and Paul Ryan will restore America’s promise and deliver a better future for our country.”  Republicans signaled Thursday that they would focus on the Friday employment numbers to move on from the Democratic pep rally in North Carolina. Virginia Gov. Bob McDonnell, counter-programming the convention here, told reporters that the GOP would “get back to what Americans really care about, especially those 10 [percent] to 15 percent of Americans that are still undecided.”  Romney, meanwhile, told his traveling press corps that he did not plan to watch Obama’s convention address. The Republican presidential candidate suggested that Obama’s speech would amount to “another series of promises that he’s not going to keep.”  Whatever tomorrow’s jobs report brings, Democrats headed into the final evening of their 2012 convention brimming with unexpected confidence and buoyed to the point of ebullience by former President Bill Clinton’s speech on Wednesday evening.  The last night of events is not proceeding exactly as organizers had planned: Democrats hoped to see Obama give his acceptance speech to a crowd of many tens of thousands at Charlotte’s Bank of America Stadium. On Wednesday morning, they announced that weather would move the event indoors to the arena where the rest of the convention has taken place.  For the Democratic Party’s elected leaders, there was no dampening the mood here. New York Sen. Chuck Schumer predicted this morning that Democrats would enjoy a steady uptick of support after the end of the convention — maybe not an instant bump, but a gradual increase that would carry them through to Election Day.  “I don’t think it’s going to be as close as people think,” Schumer said before a breakfast for New York’s convention delegation.  Perhaps the most poignant moment of the convention came shortly before 8 p.m. Thursday, when former Arizona Rep. Gabrielle Giffords led the convention in the Pledge of Allegiance. Giffords, who was shot in the head in a 2011 assassination attempt, walked onto the stage with her friend DNC Chair Debbie Wasserman Schultz and recited the pledge in a wavering voice.  As she exited to cheers from the crowd, Giffords shared an offstage embrace with her husband, retired astronaut Mark Kelly. 
