VideoThe attack, which was claimed by the Islamic State, occurred at a restaurant in Manbij, northern Syria, frequented by American troops. Warning: video includes scenes of graphic violence.CreditCredit...ANHA, via Associated PressJan. 16, 2019WASHINGTON — Four Americans were among 19 people killed in Syria on Wednesday in a suicide bombing that was claimed by the Islamic State, just weeks after President Trump ordered the withdrawal of United States forces and declared that the extremist group had been defeated.The attack targeted an American military convoy in the northern city of Manbij while troops were inside the Palace of the Princes, a restaurant where they often stopped to eat during patrols, residents said. While the Americans were inside, a nearby suicide attacker wearing an explosive vest blew himself up.The bombing raised new questions about Mr. Trump’s surprise decision last month to end the American ground war in Syria. Critics of the president’s plans, including members of his own party, said Mr. Trump’s claim of victory over the Islamic State may have emboldened its fighters and encouraged Wednesday’s strike.It was at least the sixth major attack by the Islamic State in less than a month, according to one United States official, and was one of the deadliest days that the American-led coalition had suffered in the fight against the group.Mr. Trump’s withdrawal announcement, made over the objections of his top national security officials, “set in motion enthusiasm by the enemy we’re fighting,” said Senator Lindsey Graham, Republican of South Carolina and a prominent Trump ally who has nonetheless criticized the military drawdown.“I saw this in Iraq. And I’m now seeing it in Syria,” Mr. Graham said at a Senate Judiciary Committee hearing on Wednesday.Even as the White House offered condolences over the deaths, Vice President Mike Pence insisted in a statement that the Islamic State had, in fact, been defeated.“Thanks to the courage of our armed forces, we have crushed the ISIS caliphate and devastated its capabilities,” Mr. Pence said. “As we begin to bring our troops home, the American people can be assured, for the sake of our soldiers, their families and our nation, we will never allow the remnants of ISIS to re-establish their evil and murderous caliphate — not now, not ever.”There are about 2,000 American troops in Syria. Patrick M. Shanahan, the acting defense secretary, declined to comment when asked if the attack would affect the withdrawal plans.The American casualties included two service members, a civilian employee of the Defense Intelligence Agency and a military contractor, according to the United States Central Command and a Pentagon official. Three other service members were wounded.VideotranscripttranscriptA Timeline of U.S. Military Involvement in SyriaHow long have American troops been in Syria and what is their mission? Here’s a look back at the military’s recent involvement there as the White House attempts to withdraw U.S. forces.In December, President Trump made an extraordinary declaration about U.S. involvement in Syria: “We have won against ISIS. Now, it’s time for our troops to come back home.” Ignoring advice from his generals and advisers, Trump said that the U.S. would leave Syria. Defense Department officials said that they were ordered to do it within 30 days. [explosion] Then came a flurry of criticism, even from inside his own party. “I believe it is a catastrophic mistake.” “This is very disappointing.” “It needs to be reconsidered.” Then, the resignations. First, Defense Secretary Jim Mattis quit. And America’s chief diplomat in the fight against ISIS, Brett McGurk, soon followed. Now, the timeline for a full withdrawal is unclear. “I never said we’re doing it that quickly.” He went on to say that the U.S. will leave at a proper pace while continuing to fight ISIS, a shift from — “They’re all coming back, and they’re coming back now.” The nearly eight-year-long war in Syria has left hundreds of thousands of people dead. [explosion] So, how did we get here and what are U.S. forces doing in Syria? In 2011, uprisings rippled through the Middle East. Leaders fell in Tunisia, Libya and Egypt. And after months of anti-government protests in Syria, the U.S. had a message for President Bashar al-Assad: “This morning, President Obama called on Assad to step aside.” He didn’t and the conflict escalated. In 2012, Obama warned Assad against using Syria’s stockpile of chemical weapons against his own people. “That’s a red line for us, and that there would be enormous consequences if we start seeing the use of chemical weapons.” A year later, Assad’s army launched a chemical attack on a Damascus suburb, killing 1,400 people. [screaming] In response, the U.S. debated airstrikes, but they were avoided when Syria agreed to give up its chemical weapons. But a new threat was also emerging — ISIS. In 2014, the U.S. began supporting rebel groups to fight extremists, while also conducting airstrikes as part of an international coalition. These efforts expanded and the U.S. troop numbers grew from hundreds to the low thousands. In 2016, U.S.-supported fighters took control of the ISIS stronghold of Manbij — and in 2017 their de facto capital, Raqqa. There are now around 2,000 American forces in Syria who are largely fighting alongside the Kurdish groups. This has been a problem for America’s ally Turkey, which has a long-standing conflict with the Kurds. U.S. troops have had run-ins with Assad’s forces as well as groups backed by Russia and Iran. Since taking office, Trump has ordered two strikes on areas controlled by Assad in response to chemical weapons attacks. “We are prepared to sustain this response, until the Syrian regime stops its use of prohibited chemical agents.” U.S. officials and allies dispute the claim that ISIS has been defeated. They warn that an American departure will weaken U.S. influence in the region and may embolden Russia, Iran and Turkey, who are also on the ground. The other worry? The move may inspire some ISIS fighters to return to Syria.How long have American troops been in Syria and what is their mission? Here’s a look back at the military’s recent involvement there as the White House attempts to withdraw U.S. forces.CreditCredit...Mauricio Lima for The New York TimesThe Syrian Observatory for Human Rights put the death toll from the explosion at 19 — 10 Syrian civilians and five local fighters in addition to the four Americans.Surveillance footage posted on social media showed a street with cars double-parked in front of the restaurant and pedestrians on the sidewalk. Then came the blast, consuming the sidewalk in a giant fireball and sending passers-by running for cover.A statement from the Islamic State, released through its Amaq news agency, said that the suicide attacker detonated his explosive vest to target a patrol of coalition soldiers and local militiamen near the restaurant in Manbij.The city has been ruled by nearly all sides fighting in the Syrian civil war that broke out in 2011. The United States began deploying troops to fight the Islamic State in Syria in 2015; a year later, an American-backed militia of Kurdish and Arab fighters ousted the extremists from Manbij.Since then, Manbij has largely been governed and protected by American-backed local councils. While the city is hundreds of miles from any territory held by the Islamic State, it sits next to areas controlled by Turkey and its Syrian rebel allies. American forces maintain a number of bases near Manbij and run frequent patrols.The bombing on Wednesday puts Mr. Trump in a tough position: He has long promised to pull the forces out, but also threatened in a Twitter message on Sunday to hit the Islamic State again, and “hard,” if the group lashed out.In December, Mr. Trump announced he would withdraw American forces from Syria in as little as 30 days. A day later, Defense Secretary Jim Mattis resigned in protest. Before he left the Pentagon, however, Mr. Mattis signed the formal order to begin the military drawdown.But last week, John R. Bolton, the White House national security adviser, outlined conditions for the withdrawal that could leave American forces in Syria for months or even years. So far, the military has begun withdrawing some equipment — but not troops — from Syria. The overall plan for the withdrawal has yet to be described in detail.Wednesday’s attack revived the debate over Mr. Trump’s strategy.“I strongly urge the president to forcefully respond and ensure we do not withdraw our troops until ISIS is completely destroyed,” Representative Michael McCaul of Texas, the ranking Republican on the House Foreign Affairs Committee, said in a statement.“The fight against ISIS is clearly not over,” said Senator Robert Menendez of New Jersey, the top Democrat on the Foreign Relations Committee. He said the bombing “is a stark reminder that the Trump administration needs a clearly developed and articulated strategy to secure the gains we have made in the fight.”Senator James M. Inhofe, an Oklahoma Republican who heads the Armed Services Committee, also urged Mr. Trump to reconsider the military withdrawal. However, Senator Rand Paul, a Kentucky Republican who supports the drawdown, met with Mr. Trump at the White House to urge him to stay the course.Mr. Paul emerged from the White House saying that he was optimistic Mr. Trump was following through on his Syria policy and that “I really believe there will be changes in Afghanistan, as well.”“I have never been prouder of the president, and I do not say that lightly,” he said during a call with reporters afterward.Islamic State fighters have also repeatedly struck in and around the eastern Syrian town of Hajin, where an American-backed Kurdish militia has been battling over the last sliver of territory controlled by the extremists.“All I know is that I.S. attacks, like, 3,727,638 times a day,” Mustafa Bali, a spokesman for the militia known as the Syrian Democratic Forces, said sarcastically on Wednesday, speaking through an interpreter.The number of Islamic State fighters in Iraq and Syria is estimated at 20,000 to 30,000, according to recent reports by the Pentagon, the United Nations and the Center for Strategic and International Studies, a think tank based in Washington.The extremist group has repeatedly boasted in online messages that the military withdrawal from Syria is evidence that it has outlasted the Americans.American military officials have warned that there was also a surge in violent attacks in Iraq in 2011 as United States troops were withdrawing from that conflict. Wednesday’s bombing in Syria, the officials said, could be viewed as a signal from the Islamic State that, contrary to Mr. Trump’s assertions that the caliphate has been destroyed, it remains a threat.Hassan Hassan, an analyst at the Tahrir Institute for Middle East Policy and an author of a book about the Islamic State, said the attack in Manbij showed that the extremists could still strike in the heart of an area that has long been liberated from its control — and has been the recipient of extensive American support.“The U.S. has focused on the city so much and it still has ISIS cells,” he said. “That should be a warning to everyone, that they should build on what the U.S. has been doing rather than just cut and run, leaving the city exposed to an ISIS recovery.”Mr. Hassan’s research indicates that there are many Islamic State sleeper cells scattered around different parts of Syria and Iraq, as well as in Turkey and elsewhere. He called American involvement and presence the most important factor in the Islamic State’s demise, and said a swift withdrawal of United States forces could allow the jihadists to surge back, perhaps reclaiming as much as 50 percent of their former territory.Other members of Mr. Trump’s administration have said United States forces should remain in Syria for a number of reasons — including to have leverage in negotiations with President Bashar al-Assad to end the civil war, to keep Iran from expanding its influence, to protect the United States’ Kurdish allies and to prevent a jihadist resurgence.Before Wednesday’s bombing, two American service members had been killed in Syria since the first contingent of Special Operation forces entered the country in 2015.In March, Master Sgt. Jonathan J. Dunbar, an elite Army commando, was killed by a roadside bomb near Manbij. And in 2016, Senior Chief Petty Officer Scott Cooper Dayton, a bomb disposal technician, was killed in a roadside blast near the town of Ayn Issa.