    AP Photos IOWA CITY, Iowa – The first official day of the general election campaign made it seem as if the conventions didn’t even happen.  Candidates made the same arguments they’d made for months. President Barack Obama barely mentioned Friday’s weak jobs numbers and said he’s leading a recovery from an economic hole he didn’t create. Mitt Romney said the president has not done enough to help the economy over three and a half years.  The lofty rhetoric on display at the party conventions in Tampa and Charlotte the past two weeks gave way within hours to more familiar campaign attacks at events in New Hampshire, Iowa and Nevada.  Sure, the president worked in a reference to the 30th straight month of private sector job growth during a New Hampshire stump speech, but the thrust of his remarks echoed what he’d said the night before at the Democratic National Convention in Charlotte, N.C.  “Last night, I did my best to lay out the stakes in this election,” he said. “You see, now that both sides have made their argument, there’s a big choice to make. And I honestly believe this is the biggest choice, the clearest choice, of any time in our generation, because it’s not just a choice between two candidates or two political parties. It is a choice between two different paths for America — two fundamentally different visions for how we move forward.”  GOP rival Mitt Romney would hardly allow him to get away with that.  The former Massachusetts governor continued laying the blame on Obama for failing to follow through on the inspiration that fueled his 2008 campaign, the theme of last week’s Republican National Convention in Tampa, Fla.  “There’s almost nothing the president has done in the past three and a half, four years that gives the American people confidence that he knows what he’s doing when it comes to jobs and the economy,” Romney told reporters in Sioux City, Iowa.  The day had the feel of the early primaries, with Obama and Romney each planning stops in Iowa and New Hampshire. Each would hit areas traditionally partial to their side: Obama with an afternoon rally at the University of Iowa here and on New Hampshire’s more liberal Seacoast and Romney in the epicenter of Iowa’s conservative west, and in Nashua, N.H.  Romney’s running mate, Rep. Paul Ryan, spoke before a crowd in Sparks, Nev., where he called the jobs report “pretty disappointing news.”  In Portsmouth, N.H., Obama campaigned for the first time this year with both his wife Michelle and Vice President Joe Biden. He acknowledged the jobs numbers — and pledged to do better, but said only his policies would get the country moving faster.  “Today we learned that after losing around 800,000 jobs a month when I took office, business once again added jobs for the 30th month in a row,” Obama said. “But that’s not good enough. We know it’s not good enough. We need to create more jobs, faster.”  After flicking at the jobs figures, Obama returned to the convention theme that Romney is offering retrograde policies. After naming him only once Thursday night while speaking to a national television audience, Obama name-checked Romney with zeal, saying he would offer the same prescription no matter what the country’s ills.  “Tax cuts when times are good, tax cuts when times are bad,” Obama said. “Tax cuts to help you lose a few extra pounds. Tax cuts to improve your love life. It’ll cure anything, according to them.”  At his event in Orange City, the seat of Sioux County, Iowa’s most politically and culturally conservative county, Romney accused Obama both of offering “new promises” and of not offering Americans a new plan during his nomination acceptance address. “I expected him to confront the major challenges of the last four years, which is an economy which has not produced the jobs that the American people need,” Romney said. “Instead, it was a whole series of new promises that he will ultimately won’t be able to keep because the policies he believes in and the direction he’s pulling will not make America stronger.”  Despite the jobs numbers, Obama offered his crowd a bit of a victory lap for a largely successful convention. He praised Michelle Obama and former President Bill Clinton for their speeches supporting him, offering a little self-deprecating humor regarding Clinton’s wildly popular speech.  “Michelle was amazing. President Clinton made the case in the way only he can,” Obama said. “Somebody emailed me after his speech they said, you need to appoint him secretary of explaining stuff. That was pretty good. I like that — the secretary of explaining stuff — ‘splanin.”  And for the second day in a row Obama spoke about the environment and things he’d done to protect it, but unlike during the convention speech he couched his policies in economic terms.  “I’ve got a plan to control more of our own energy,” he said. “You know, after 30 years of inaction, we finally raised fuel standards so that by the middle of the next decade, new cars and trucks will go twice as far on a gallon of gas. That will save you money. That will save you money.”  Romney’s Iowa event was his first rally since he wrapped his own post-convention two-day tour in Florida last Saturday. For almost a week he went dark, spending Monday at his New Hampshire lake house and then hunkering down at a Vermont estate to do debate prep.  The former Massachusetts governor is scheduled to appear Saturday in Virginia, where he will hold a rally in Virginia Beach and then attend a NASCAR race in Richmond.  As he reemerged on the campaign train, Romney explained first that he had not watched Obama’s speech but read the text on Friday morning and then rattled off a list of disappointments, focused mainly on the economy.  He retooled most of his stump speech, building his remarks around Obama’s address and including his own five-point plan for the economy.  "There are real people having real struggles because this economy hasn’t created the nine million jobs the president’s plan was supposed to create and the reason it did not create jobs is because what the president did was not what it takes to make our economy work,” Romney said at a rally in Nashua, N.H. “He seems to think that if government gets larger and larger that means people are going to find jobs. That’s not the answer.”  Romney also responded to Obama’s foreign policy jab, when the president said Romney couldn’t be trusted on foreign policy if he couldn’t visit the Olympics without causing an international incident.  The head of the 2002 Salt Lake City games called his remarks belittling London’s preparations as “straight talk” and said Obama should offer similar honesty when dealing with China.  “I’m very pleased that my Olympic experience allows me to talk about the Olympics in a straight talk manner and I think it would be appropriate if the president would talk to China in a straight talk manner,” Romney said. “They have manipulated their currency for well over a decade, taken American jobs and I think it’s totally appropriate to show backbone and strength as we deal with other nations around the world, there is nothing wrong with telling people the truth.”  - Reid J. Epstein reported from Iowa City, Iowa and Ginger Gibson from Orange City, Iowa. MJ Lee contributed reporting from Sparks, Nev and Seung Min Kim contributed reporting from Portsmouth, N.H. 
