    A slew of scandals are roiling Richmond after Virginia Gov. Ralph Northam (center) and state Attorney General Mark Herring (left) admitted to wearing blackface. Additionally, Lt. Gov. Justin Fairfax (right) is facing sexual assault allegations. | Steve Helber/AP Photo  Virginia 
Virginia law spells out how to replace a governor — but the cascading scandals hitting state officials make everything more complicated. 
The top three statewide elected officials in Virginia, all Democrats, are embroiled in scandal and facing calls to resign, testing the state’s constitution and line of succession and even raising the possibility of a new election later this year.
Here’s what’s happening in Virginia and how the state would handle the vacancies if any of the three resign. The scandals
Last week, Virginia Gov. Ralph Northam admitted donning blackface in a talent contest after a picture from his medical school yearbook emerged, featuring men dressed in blackface and Ku Klux Klan robes. (Northam admitted and then denied being in the yearbook photo.) He has resisted calls to resign.
On Wednesday, state Attorney General Mark Herring admitted that he too had once worn blackface, for a costume while he was in college. “In the days ahead, honest conversations and discussions will make it clear whether I can or should continue to serve as attorney general, but no matter where we go from here, I will say that from the bottom of my heart, I am deeply, deeply sorry for the pain that I cause with this revelation,” Herring said in a statement. Herring had previously called on Northam to resign.
Meanwhile, Lt. Gov. Justin Fairfax has been accused of sexual assault, which he has denied. Fairfax put out a new statement Wednesday: “As I have stated previously, fifteen years ago, when I was an unmarried law student, I had a consensual encounter with the woman who made the allegation,” the statement read. “I wish her no harm or humiliation, nor do I seek to denigrate her or diminish her voice. But I cannot agree with a description of events that I know is not true.”
What is the line of succession for the governorship? The first stop in Virginia’s gubernatorial line of succession is the lieutenant governor. If the lieutenant governor’s office is vacant, the attorney general would become governor in the case of the governor’s resignation. If the attorney general cannot serve as governor, the speaker of the House of Delegates — currently Republican Kirk Cox — would become the governor. And if the speaker cannot serve, the state constitution says the House of Delegates “shall convene and fill the vacancy.”
Cox became speaker last year, after Republicans narrowly retained a state House majority in the 2017 elections. The GOP won 51 seats to Democrats’ 49 seats, with the majority coming down to the Virginia Board of Elections drawing a name out of a bowl in one district where the Republican and Democratic candidates received exactly the same number of votes.
If Fairfax or Herring either resign or become governor, what happens to their positions?
The succession process for the lieutenant governorship gets complicated. If Fairfax either becomes governor or resigns, he will vacate his current office and the state Senate president pro tem, Republican Steve Newman, would be empowered to “discharge the duties” of the lieutenant governorship, said John Dinan, a Wake Forest professor and expert on state constitutions.
That arrangement would likely be short-lived, because the governor has “constitutional authority to fill the vacancy in the office of lieutenant governor,” said A.E. Dick Howard, a law professor at the University of Virginia who led the drafting of Virginia’s current state constitution in the late 1960s and early 1970s. However, the appointment would only last for a few months, Howard and Dinan said.
Under Virginia law, an election to fill the remainder of Fairfax’s original term as lieutenant governor would be held this November, when every state legislative seat in Virginia will also be up in the regular 2019 elections. Then, there would be a regularly scheduled election for a full four-year lieutenant governor term in 2021.
The process for replacing Herring would be different, should he either resign or ascend to the governorship. Any vacancy in the office of attorney general would be filled by a majority vote from the “total membership” — both legislative chambers — of the state’s General Assembly, if it is in session. If the legislature is not in session, the governor can temporarily appoint an attorney general until the legislature comes back. The new attorney general would serve through the regular 2021 elections. If Northam is replaced, the new governor could have a rare incumbency advantage in 2021.
Under Virginia law, a governor cannot run for consecutive terms. But if someone else finishes the remainder of Northam’s current term, that person could run for a full term in 2021.
“Justin Fairfax would serve out the term for which Ralph Northam is elected and then the new governor, Governor Fairfax, could stand for election for a full four-year term,” Howard said.
The consecutive term rule does not apply to other statewide offices, like attorney general or lieutenant governor. (Herring, who was first elected attorney general in 2013, won a second term in 2017.) 