For the second time in less than a week, North Korea launched suspected short-range missiles, according to South Korea's military. The projectiles were fired Thursday from near a military base about 50 miles from North Korea's capital Pyongyang. There were few other details immediately available. State media in North Korea said that on Saturday the nation held a short-range ballistic missile test as part of a regularly scheduled defensive military exercise. It was the country's first such test in more than a year and came amid what appear to be stalled denuclearization talks between Pyongyang and Washington. "We're looking at it very seriously now. Nobody's happy about it but we're taking a good look and we'll see," President Donald Trump said Thursday in response to North Korea's latest missile launch. "The relationship continues."38 North, a website devoted to analysis of North Korea, said that Saturday's test provided "convincing evidence" that Pyongyang is continuing to seek greater military and strategic capabilities despite holding nuclear disarmament talks with Trump. "Pyongyang perceives itself to be under threat of aggression by the United States. (North Korea's leader) Kim Jong Un very likely has other strategic weapons projects underway, whether foreign procurement efforts or indigenous development programs," 38 North said in a post on its website. South Korean media noted that Thursday's launch coincided with a visit to the Korean Peninsula by the U.S. Special Representative for North Korea. Stephen Biegun arrived in Seoul on Wednesday for talks with South Korea's leader about inter-Korean issues, including ways to move beyond an apparent Trump-Kim impasse after two summits failed to produce any tangible agreements on North Korea's denuclearization. Otto Warmbier's mother: North Korea is a 'cancer,' criticizes 'charade' diplomacySouth Korea's military indicated the projectiles launched Thursday likely crash-landed in the East China Sea. Japan’s Kyodo News agency said there was no threat or impact on that nation's national security. There was also no threat to Guam or the Mariana Islands, U.S. territories located 2,100 miles southeast of the launch area, according to the offices of Guam Homeland Security and Civil Defense.South Korea’s military said the two suspected missiles flew about 260 miles and 167 miles, respectively. It said the base from where they were likely launched is also home to medium-range missiles that can fly up to 800 miles, enough to strike Japan.The second Trump-Kim summit took place in Hanoi, Vietnam, in February. It ended without agreement over what to do about North Korea's nuclear program after Trump refused to grant Pyongyang economic sanctions relief. "Sometimes you have to walk and this was one of those times," Trump said at the time. Secretary of State Mike Pompeo said Sunday that North Korea's weekend missile test would not trigger new sanctions or hinder any diplomatic process because the test did not involve long-range or intercontinental missiles, an apparent red line. Trump said Thursday that "North Korea has tremendous potential economically" and he didn't think Kim would want to jeopardize that. Separately Thursday, Justice Department officials announced that they seized a North Korean ship, "Wise Honest," that violated international sanctions by attempting to sell coal, which is on a United Nations Security Council export ban list for the country. "This sanctions-busting ship is now out of service," Assistant Attorney General John C. Demers said in a statement. A complaint seeking the vessel's forfeiture was filed in federal District Court by the U.S. attorney’s office for the Southern District of New York. North Korea:U.S. seizes cargo ship linked to sanctions violations by exporting coalShea Cotton, an expert on North Korea at the James Martin Center for Nonproliferation Studies in Monterey, California, said that North Korea’s latest missile test could be aimed at extracting sanctions concessions from Trump."By doing these smaller scale missile tests I think it’s in part done to send a signal that North Korea can go back to doing those missile tests whenever it wants and if Trump wants to stop that he needs to give North Korea something," he said. "There is certainly frustration on the North Korean side for lack of progress," said Jenny Town, a Stimson Center think tank fellow and managing editor of 38 North. "North Korea will continue to develop its defensive capabilities as long as its relationship with both Seoul and Washington remain fundamentally unchanged," she said. 