Videotranscripttranscript‘I Can No Longer Support’ the Hyde Amendment, Says BidenJoseph R. Biden Jr., the presumed front-runner for the Democratic nomination, denounced his past support of the Hyde Amendment, saying he could not support a measure that bans federal funding for most abortions.We now see so many Republican governors denying health care to millions of the most poorest and most vulnerable Americans by refusing even Medicaid expansion. I can’t justify leaving millions of women without access to the care they need and the ability to — to exercise their constitutionally protected right. If I believe health care is a right as I do, I can no longer support an amendment that makes that right dependent on someone’s zip code. I supported the Hyde Amendment like many, many others had because there was sufficient monies and circumstances where women were able to exercise that right — women of color, poor women, women who are not able to have access. And it was not under attack as it was then, as it is now. But circumstances have changed.Joseph R. Biden Jr., the presumed front-runner for the Democratic nomination, denounced his past support of the Hyde Amendment, saying he could not support a measure that bans federal funding for most abortions.CreditCredit...Audra Melton for The New York TimesJune 6, 2019ATLANTA — After two days of intense criticism, Joseph R. Biden Jr. reversed himself Thursday night on one of the issues most important to Democratic voters, saying he no longer supports a measure that bans federal funding for most abortions.As recently as Wednesday, Mr. Biden’s campaign had said he supported the measure, known as the Hyde Amendment. His decision to change positions illustrates the intense pressure he faces as the presumed front-runner for the Democratic nomination for president.[What is the Hyde Amendment? Here’s a look at what it does, and why the politics have shifted.]His turnaround was abrupt, particularly because Mr. Biden has grappled for decades with his views on abortion rights. While he has said he supports Roe v. Wade, the Supreme Court ruling that made abortion legal nationwide, he has opposed members of his own party on a number of abortion measures, ascribing his reluctance to his Roman Catholic faith.In a speech at a gala hosted by the Democratic National Committee in Atlanta on Thursday night, Mr. Biden credited the change, in part, to recent efforts by Republicans to roll back abortion access in states including Georgia and across the country — especially in the South — calling them “extreme laws.”“If I believe health care is a right, as I do, I can no longer support an amendment that makes that right dependent on someone’s ZIP code,” Mr. Biden said.The former vice president, who generally resists expressing contrition for the views he held in the past, noted that he made “no apologies for the last position.”Mr. Biden has been criticized for other pieces of his long political record. As a senator from Delaware he led the Judiciary Committee that subjected Anita Hill to harsh questioning when she accused Justice Clarence Thomas of sexual harassment in 1991, and he was a sponsor of the 1994 crime bill, which many Democrats now say increased mass incarceration.VideotranscripttranscriptBiden Has a Long Record. Will This Help or Hurt Him?Joseph R. Biden Jr. was a two-term vice president and spent 36 years as a senator. But his front-runner status in the Democratic primary will be tested by the party’s desire for generational change.A former vice president known for — “My love affair with Amtrak.” “Back on Amtrak” — and his famous friend. “This also gives the internet one last chance to talk about our bromance.” Joe Biden is running for president. “Today, I am announcing my candidacy for president of the United States. He’s tried it before. “And with the grace of God and the support of the American people, I mean to be that kind of president.” Twice. “This is not about experience. It’s not about change. It’s about action.” So, why does he think the third time’s a charm? Biden may be betting that in this politically tumultuous time, voters are looking for a familiar face. He arrived in Washington before C-Span existed and before these members of Congress were born. His credentials are unmatched in the Democratic Party. He served two terms as vice president, 36 years in the Senate and has chaired powerful congressional committees. And he’s earned himself a few nicknames along the way. “Working-Class Joe.” “Working-Class Joe Biden.” “Old Uncle Joe Biden.” “Crazy Uncle Joe Biden, just being Biden.” So, what are Biden’s priorities? He’s a moderate Democrat and is likely to focus on: expanding health care, investing in education and rebuilding relationships with allies. “The America I see does not wish to turn our back on the world or our allies. We will be back.” But his decadeslong record comes with some baggage, including his support for the Iraq war. “President Bush is right to be concerned about Saddam Hussein’s relentless pursuit of weapons of mass destruction.” Tough anti-crime policies. “First, we have to join together to ensure that drug dealers are punished swiftly, surely and severely.” And his role in the Anita Hill hearing. “It is appropriate to ask Professor Hill anything any member wishes to ask her to plumb the depths of her credibility.” More recently, several women have come forward saying they were uncomfortable with the way Biden touched them. “I feel Joe Biden put his hands on my shoulders, get up very close to me from behind, lean in, smell my hair and then plant a slow kiss on the top of my head.” Biden responded on Twitter. “The boundaries of protected personal space have been reset and I get it. I will be more mindful and respectful of people’s personal space. So, how has Biden taken on President Trump? They’ve had their share of fighting words. “If we were in high school, I’d take him behind the gym and beat the hell out of him.” Trump shot back on Twitter, and said Biden “would go down fast and hard, crying all the way.” Biden later said he regretted his comments. So, what are Biden’s odds? He entered the race as an instant front-runner and he’s already leading in early polls. But as a white man in his late 70s, Biden’s test will be whether his popularity can outweigh the party’s thirst for generational change.Joseph R. Biden Jr. was a two-term vice president and spent 36 years as a senator. But his front-runner status in the Democratic primary will be tested by the party’s desire for generational change.CreditCredit...Maddie McGarvey for The New York TimesHe suggested that the amendment stands in the way of his goals of “universal coverage” and providing the “full range of health services women need,” when in many states the ability to gain access to abortion coverage through other means — Planned Parenthood clinics, for example — is being curtailed.“Folks, times have changed,” he said. “I don’t think these guys are going to let up.”The Hyde Amendment, named for former Representative Henry Hyde, a Republican from Illinois, was first passed in 1976 and is renewed every year, with occasional changes to the list of exceptions. It bans federal funding of abortion, with exceptions for rape, incest and the life of the mother, and it affects Medicaid funding of abortion, leading critics to argue that the measure puts a disproportionate burden on poor women and women of color.Mr. Biden’s appearance on Thursday was part of a Democratic Party gathering in Atlanta that also drew three of Mr. Biden’s opponents: Senator Cory Booker of New Jersey, Mayor Pete Buttigieg of South Bend, Ind., and former Representative Beto O’Rourke of Texas. A speech by Stacey Abrams, Georgia’s Democratic candidate for governor last year — who had been discussed by some as a potential running mate for Mr. Biden, though both camps have disputed talk of a joint ticket — capped the evening.In her remarks, Ms. Abrams, who delivered an impassioned call for protecting voter rights, also warned against allowing the primary contest to turn too bitter.“If we are so divided by our primary that we can’t beat our adversary, then we are lost for a generation,” said Ms. Abrams, who has not closed the door on the possibility of her own presidential bid.Ilyse Hogue, president of the abortion rights group Naral Pro-Choice America, said Thursday that she was glad to see that Mr. Biden had changed his position.“At a time where the fundamental freedoms enshrined in Roe are under attack, we need full-throated allies in our leaders,” she said. “We’re pleased that Joe Biden has joined the rest of the 2020 Democratic field in coalescing around the Party’s core values — support for abortion rights, and the basic truth that reproductive freedom is fundamental to the pursuit of equality and economic security in this country.”