    Some point to Rob Portman’s gay marriage switch as a watershed moment for the party. Republican fundraisers say the changing views of gay marriage in their party could unlock big money from GOP donors in places like New York, California and Florida — where some Republicans have kept their checkbooks closed over what they saw as misplaced priorities, at best, or intolerance, at worst, at the highest ranks of the party.  Several Republicans pointed to Sen. Rob Portman’s switch in support of gay marriage as a watershed moment for the party. And more than two dozen high-profile Republicans asked the Supreme Court to back gay rights. And even Foster Friess, Rick Santorum’s top benefactor, has softened his stance on domestic partnership.  “Republicans’ intolerance to marriage equality has been detrimental to winning,” said Aaron McLear, a California Republican strategist. “Big donors understand that they don’t want to invest in campaigns focused on a losing issue, and I think certainly the fiscal issues for Republicans are much more marketable.”  (Also on POLITICO: Rob Portman backs gay marriage)  Republican fundraiser Jim McCray agreed. “I think it will open up donors across the board, because it demonstrates Republicans are trying to recreate the big tent they were known for,” McCray said.  It’s not clear how much money could come from donors supportive of the party’s move toward new thoughts on gay marriage. Pro gay-rights donors have long been an important source of campaign cash for Democrats, including after President Barack Obama pushed through a repeal of the “don’t ask, don’t tell” policy, which barred openly gay people from serving in the military.  And operatives believe the money is there for Republicans, too.  Several lawmakers told POLITICO the issue has come up in meetings with potential big donors, who take a different view than the party base.  Portman himself has taken heat from New York donors who believe the party’s emphasis on social issues is one of the major reasons for losses this fall. Their views were taken so seriously that Portman, vice chairman of finance for the National Republican Senatorial Committee, held a dozen meetings with big New York donors recently in an attempt to assuage their fears about the direction of the party.  (PHOTOS: 25 gay marriage milestones)  One GOP fundraising operative said Portman’s announcement could provide a fundraising boost to the debt-saddled NRSC.  “Those donors are libertarian on social issues, and a lot of them support [gay marriage],” said the operative, who deals regularly with top-tier GOP donors. “So, it could actually help.”  American Unity PAC, a super PAC started by Elliott Associates hedge fund billionaire Paul Singer to push Republican candidates to support gay marriage, plans to announce big changes related to its fundraising in the coming weeks as it ramps up for the midterm elections.  ( PHOTOS: Pols who evolved on gay marriage)  “I expect we’re going to play a major, major role in 2014. As more and more true conservatives come out in support of the freedom to marry, it gives us a lot more opportunity to play a role and make a difference in races,” said Jeff Cook-McCormac, a senior adviser to American Unity PAC. Cook-McCormac said even if Republican candidates don’t support same-sex marriage, he expects more to talk about the issue in “an inclusive and welcoming way.” Some might even come out in support of employment nondiscrimination or other LGBT causes that don’t receive as much attention as freedom to marry.  “When we first started, donors were timid about supporting the group. That timidity has evaporated. After seeing our party lose some painful races in 2012, people want to be on the right side of this issue,” Cook-McCormac said.  ( Also on POLITICO: Navarro: Genie out of bottle)  David Herro, a major GOP donor who gave $50,000 to American Unity during the 2012 cycle, said Portman reconsidering his stance on gay marriage was “a huge positive” for the party.  “The Republican Party need not be the keeper of individual values as this is not the role of a political party in the USA,” said Herro, a partner at Harris Associates, a Chicago-based investment company. “Politicians should stick to what they are truly able to legislate: taxes, spending, infrastructure, national security, because to some degree these are all public goods, whereas one valueset is quite personal and individual.”  Herro said he will continue to give to American Unity and that he welcomes Portman’s leadership on this issue.  “I think the Republican Party needs to be more libertarian on our views on these social issues,” he said.  Others like Cliff Asness, a New York donor who has given to pro-gay marriage initiatives in the state, also see it as a welcome sign.  “[Asness] thinks it is natural for Republicans to support marriage equality as it is in line with the party’s small government, free enterprise principles,” a spokeswoman said in an email.  Outside groups are also looking to take advantage of the comments.  Log Cabin Republicans is already looking to use Portman’s announcement to boost its fundraising.  Executive Director Gregory Angelo said the group would be sending Portman’s announcement in an email fundraising blast to supporters. He also said the group had seen an increase in the number of members and enthusiasm from those already in the group, specifically from Ohio, following the announcement on Friday.  “In terms of fundraising, it’s fantastic to be able to point to allies. It could change what our political giving looks like. It could recalibrate the way we look at our legislative strategy looking ahead,” Angelo said.  The group is also going to discuss its strategy going into 2014 and how Portman’s announcement could help shape that at its next board meeting in April.  “Portman’s announcement is undoubtedly huge and is something we have to take into account when we decide our political giving,” he said.  GOProud’s Jimmy LaSalvia said they’ve already noticed an increase in small donor giving over the past month.  “Seeing this shift on an issue so important personally to our membership has certainly energized our folks and especially small donors,” LaSalvia said.  Kenneth P. Vogel contributed to this report.  CORRECTION: Jeff Cook-McCormac’s name was incorrect in an earlier version of this article. 
