 Student Winston Wallace, 9, raises his hand in class at iPrep Academy on the first day of school in Miami. | Lynne Sladky/AP Photo Federal education authorities launched five investigations into statewide school mask bans on Monday, ratcheting up the Biden administration's feud with Republican governors as Covid-19 infections disrupt the fall back-to-school season in some communities.
The Department of Education’s civil rights office will review indoor masking prohibitions in Iowa, Oklahoma, South Carolina, Tennessee and Utah, and examine whether bans in those states violate the rights of students with disabilities.
“It’s simply unacceptable that state leaders are putting politics over the health and education of the students they took an oath to serve,” Education Secretary Miguel Cardona said in a statement. “The Department will fight to protect every student’s right to access in-person learning safely and the rights of local educators to put in place policies that allow all students to return to the classroom full-time in-person safely this fall.”
A significant group of states will escape federal scrutiny — at least for now: Authorities said the department’s civil rights office has not opened investigations in Florida, Texas, Arkansas or Arizona.
Court orders or other actions have kept those states’ school mask bans from being enforced, the department said. That should allow local schools in those areas to enact mask requirements, though it’s still possible Education Department authorities could pursue similar investigations in those places.
The investigations will hinge on a novel, pandemic-era use of federal civil rights law. In letters to state school authorities whose jurisdictions are now under investigation, federal officials said they’re concerned that restrictions on mask use may keep schools from complying with federal laws that protect disabled students from discrimination.
But even as majorities of adults support mask and vaccine mandates for students and teachers, polls show hard partisan divides continue to color how the public prefers to keep kids safe.
“Until every American citizen is safely out of Afghanistan, President Biden shouldn’t spend a single second harassing states like Oklahoma for protecting parents’ rights to make health decisions for their kids," said Carly Atchison, a spokesperson for Republican Gov. Kevin Stitt, in response to the government investigation.
Similarly, Brian Symmes, a spokesperson for South Carolina Gov. Henry McMaster, said the Education Department’s probes were an attempt to “force a liberal agenda" on states.
“Under South Carolina law, anybody who wants to wear a mask — in a school setting or elsewhere — is free to do so, but the governor isn’t going to ignore a parent’s fundamental right to make health decisions for their children,” Symmes said.
The Education Department said it will examine each state’s compliance with a section of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, a federal law that guarantees qualified students with disabilities the right to a free appropriate public education in K-12 schools. The investigations will also assess whether school mask bans violate the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990. Regional civil rights offices will begin collecting data from affected states during the coming weeks, the department said.
Such investigations are typically time-consuming affairs, and do not have a pre-ordained outcome. Still, President Joe Biden earlier this month ordered the Education Department to "use all available tools" to aid local governments that have resisted statewide school mask bans by enacting competing mandates of their own.
Disability rights advocates have also filed separate legal challenges against Texas, Florida and South Carolina in an effort to argue those states‘ bans on universal school masking run afoul of federal anti-discrimination laws.
Three-quarters of the nation's 100 largest and highest-profile school systems required masks for all students as of Monday, according to a review from the Center on Reinventing Public Education at the University of Washington. Roughly 75 percent of the nation's elementary and high school students have also started their fall semesters, according to Burbio's school data tracker.
Federal health authorities are also urging schools to adopt broad safety practices as they reopen after a California investigation underscored the risk of classroom Covid-19 infections and a prominent children’s hospital group aired concerns about steadily filling pediatric wards across the nation.
An infected and unvaccinated elementary teacher in northern California spread the disease to half of their classroom in May, according to a report published Friday, after occasionally reading aloud to students without a face covering despite the school’s indoor masking requirements. Students sitting closest to the teacher were at higher risk for infection.
The head of the Children’s Hospital Association last week also warned the Biden administration that pediatric wards are seeing “high demand and staffing challenges.” He said there may not be enough beds or staff available to care for children amid increasing demand during the back-to-school season.
“In our outbreak investigations, large scale quarantines or large numbers of cases are generally occurring in schools because schools are not following our guidance,” CDC Director Rochelle Walensky told reporters on Friday. “Particularly our recommendations for teachers as well as students aged 12 and over to be vaccinated, and for everyone, right now, to be masked.”
