  John Bolton is finally ready to spill the beans on the White House’s Ukrainian "drug deal.”  The former national security adviser announced Monday he’s prepared to testify under subpoena at President Trump’s expected Senate impeachment trial, an explosive development that could give a major boost to the Democratic case for the president’s removal from office.  Bolton — who refused to play ball in the House impeachment inquiry despite sitting on extensive first-hand knowledge of what he privately called the Trump administration’s “drug deal” Ukraine scandal — said in a statement posted to his website that his decision was prompted by the resolution of a court case involving his former deputy, Charles Kupperman.  “I have concluded that, if the Senate issues a subpoena for my testimony, I am prepared to testify," Bolton said.   Like all other administration officials, Kupperman was ordered by Trump to stonewall a subpoena for testimony in the House impeachment probe. The ex-Bolton deputy fell in line with Trump’s directives, but also took the matter to court, asking a federal judge to decide whether he should comply with a congressional subpoena or the president’s sweeping invocation of executive privilege.  Last week, a judge declared Kupperman’s case moot without issuing a definitive ruling, and Bolton said that was enough for him to make up his mind.   “I publicly resolved to be guided by the outcome of Dr. Kupperman’s case,” Bolton said. “Accordingly, since my testimony is once again at issue, I have had to resolve the serious competing issues as best I could, based on careful consideration and study.”  The hawkish ex-national security chief, who was fired by Trump in September after clashes over Ukraine and other foreign policy matters, tops the list of current and former administration officials Democrats want to grill at Trump’s trial.  Bolton’s announcement gave Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer fresh ammunition for his bid to convince Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell to agree to a trial plan that includes subpoenas for testimony and records withheld by Trump.  In a statement, Schumer noted just four GOP senators would need to break ranks for the chamber to meet the 51-vote threshold needed to pass a trial rule mandating subpoenas for Bolton, acting Trump chief of staff Mick Mulvaney and two White House officials who refused to testify in the House proceedings.  “Given that Mr. Bolton’s lawyers have stated he has new relevant information to share, if any Senate Republican opposes issuing subpoenas to the four witnesses and documents we have requested they would make absolutely clear they are participating in a cover up,” Schumer (D-N.Y.) said.  McConnell (D-Ky.) stayed clear of addressing Bolton’s statement directly, saying he wants to wait to discuss potential testimony until the trial starts.  “That was good enough for President Clinton, so it ought to be good enough for President Trump,” McConnell said from the Senate floor. Democrats have countered that argument doesn’t hold water since there weren’t any complaints about outstanding testimony before Clinton’s 1999 impeachment trial.  Trump trial proceedings remain at an impasse, as House Speaker Nancy Pelosi (D-Calif.) hasn’t yet given the Senate the two articles of impeachment approved against Trump and has suggested she won’t do so until she’s given assurances that a fair trial will ensue. McConnell has dismissed Pelosi’s political marksmanship as partisan nonsense and is demanding she hand over the articles.  House impeachment investigators opted against subpoenaing Bolton after he made clear he would follow Kupperman’s lead and take the matter to court — a process that could have dragged on for weeks or even months.  Nonetheless, Bolton was described in testimony as one of the most crucial first-hand witnesses of Trump’s multi-pronged campaign to pressure Ukraine into announcing investigations of Joe Biden’s family and other Democrats before the 2020 election while holding up $391 million in U.S. military aid as leverage.  According to ex-National Security Council adviser Fiona Hill, Bolton got into a heated exchange with Gordon Sondland on July 10 after the U.S. ambassador to the European Union told a group of Ukrainian officials visiting the White House that President Volodymyr Zelensky would only get an Oval Office meeting with Trump if the desired investigations were launched.  “I am not part of this drug deal that Sondland and Mulvaney are cooking up,” Hill quoted Bolton as telling her after the spat.  Bolton also told Hill to alert National Security Council lawyers about concerns that the plot for Ukrainian investigations could be illegal, she testified.  In another colorful exchange, Bolton called Rudy Giuliani — another key architect of Trump’s Ukraine plot — “a hand grenade," according to Hill.  “Giuliani’s a hand grenade who’s going to blow everybody up,” Hill quoted Bolton as saying of the former New York mayor-turned-personal Trump attorney.  Reached by text message Monday afternoon, Giuliani claimed he wasn’t worried about Bolton’s potential testimony and said it’s “up to him and the president” as to whether it happens.  Bolton’s new statement did not elaborate on specifics about what he’s willing to testify about.  McConnell hasn’t completely ruled out the prospect of calling witnesses, though he made clear last month that he’s looking to quickly acquit Trump of all charges.  Pelosi renewed her call for a “fair” trial after Bolton’s announcement.  “The president and Sen. McConnell have run out of excuses,” the speaker tweeted. “They must allow key witnesses to testify, and produce the documents Trump has blocked, so Americans can see the facts for themselves. The Senate cannot be complicit in the president’s cover-up."  