House Speaker Nancy Pelosi continued to resist calls Thursday to transmit articles of impeachment to the Senate, even as a top Republican said GOP senators are expecting the California Democrat to send them by the end of the week.At her weekly news conference, Pelosi reiterated her view that Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-Ky.) must lay out trial rules before she appoints impeachment managers. But she also pledged not to hold the articles “indefinitely” and said they would probably be transmitted “soon,” without giving further details.Sen. John Cornyn (R-Tex.), meanwhile, said that Republican senators are speculating that Pelosi will send the articles to the Senate “at the end of this week, like tomorrow.”The crux of the Democrats’ case is the allegation that President Trump tried to leverage a White House meeting and military aid, sought by Ukraine to combat Russian military aggression, to pressure Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky to launch an investigation of former vice president Joe Biden and his son Hunter Biden, as well as a probe of an unfounded theory that Kyiv conspired with Democrats to interfere in the 2016 presidential election.Trump barely mentions impeachment at political rally in OhioReturn to menuAt his first political rally of 2020, Trump spoke for nearly 90 minutes but did not offer his regular defense of the circumstances surrounding his impeachment or weigh in on a Senate trial.He made a few passing references to it but didn’t explicitly discuss it, focusing instead on his recent actions in Iran, as well as his normal takedowns of Democrats and the media.At one point while insulting Democrats, he said they were “wasting their time with demented hoaxes.” He said anyone else who had to deal with the investigations he had since taking office would “be in the corner with their thumb in their mouth saying, ‘Mommy, Mommy, take me home.’ ”Later, during an aside, he blamed the “Squad” of four freshman congresswomen of color, for getting Democrats “into this impeachment hoax.” He then suggested that Pelosi was afraid of them.Trump says Biden will hear ‘Where’s Hunter?’ at every debateReturn to menuBy Colby Itkowitz8:00 p.m.Trump told his supporters at the rally in Toledo he hoped Biden would be his 2020 opponent because “he will hear, ‘Where’s Hunter?’ every single debate, nine times a debate.”Trump went off on his common riff about Biden’s son — suggesting he’s in hiding and repeating the unfounded suggestion that there was something nefarious about the younger Biden’s position on the board of a Ukrainian gas company while his father was vice president.Though Trump was impeached for seeking an investigation into the Bidens’ dealings with Ukraine, that hasn’t stopped him from continuing to talk disparagingly about Hunter Biden.Senate adjourns for the week with no progress on Senate trial Return to menuBy Colby Itkowitz6:00 p.m.The Senate finished its business for the week without receiving the articles of impeachment from the House and will reconvene at 3 p.m. Jan. 13.Giuliani writes op-ed saying the Supreme Court should rule impeachment charges unconstitutionalReturn to menuBy Colby Itkowitz5:45 p.m.Rudolph W. Giuliani, Trump’s personal attorney, who is embroiled in the dealings with Ukraine that led to impeachment, has suggested that the articles of impeachment be deemed illegal by the Supreme Court.In an op-ed for the conservative Daily Caller, Giuliani claims that “abuse of power” and “obstruction of Congress” are not impeachable crimes. He argues that if the Supreme Court lets the impeachment stand, “it would allow the House to impeach for policy differences or political leverage.”The Founding Fathers were vague about what qualified as an impeachable offense. The Democrats believe Trump’s behavior falls under “high crimes and misdemeanors.”Giuliani also suggested that there would be an “immense amount of political benefit” for Trump in a long Senate trial, but said that McConnell should instead focus on confirming more judges to the federal bench.McConnell signs on to Hawley resolution to dismiss case against TrumpReturn to menuBy Felicia Sonmez4:30 p.m.McConnell signed on to a resolution from Sen. Josh Hawley (R-Mo.) to dismiss the case against Trump, bringing the total number of sponsors to more than a dozen.The measure would change the Senate rules to allow it to dismiss the impeachment case against Trump if Pelosi does not send articles of impeachment to the chamber.McConnell previously signed on to a separate resolution by Sen. Lindsey O. Graham (R-S.C.) that would condemn Pelosi for not sending over the articles.‘I did not say what I meant,’ Rep. Smith says in clarifying remarksReturn to menuHouse Armed Services Committee Chairman Adam Smith (D-Wash.) gave reporters an explanation Thursday for his turnaround on whether Pelosi should send the articles to the Senate, saying he meant she should send them “soon,” rather than immediately.“It’s really just a question of when [to send the articles],” Smith said.He noted that Pelosi herself said at her weekly news conference that she planned to transmit the articles “soon.”“That’s what I should have said instead of, ‘Yes, I think we need to do it,’ ” Smith said. “I did not say what I meant.”Smith said no one from Pelosi’s office contacted him to correct the statement. He also declined to say how long he believes the speaker should wait before sending the articles.“I don’t think I should try to answer that question … because she knows a heck of a lot more than I do about what conversations she’s having with the Senate or with the senators, whether it’s moderate Republicans or Democrats,” Smith said.Sen. Coons backs Pelosi decision to withhold articlesReturn to menuBy Felicia Sonmez3:50 p.m.As a growing number of Democrats have called for Pelosi to release the articles of impeachment, Sen. Christopher A. Coons (D-Del.) said he supports the House speaker’s decision, praising her efforts to secure a fair trial in the Senate.“Speaker Pelosi will decide when to send the articles, not any member of the Senate,” Coons said in a tweet. “I’m ready for the Senate to begin the trial, but I absolutely understand why @SpeakerPelosi is working to ensure this is a *fair* trial with testimony from relevant witnesses. That is important.”“It’s ridiculous that the White House and Senate Republicans are blocking testimony from witnesses the American people deserve to hear from,” he added.Sen. Feinstein walks back comments on impeachmentReturn to menuSen. Dianne Feinstein (D-Calif.) said Thursday that her comments the previous day urging Pelosi to send over the articles to the Senate had been misinterpreted.“My comments have been misunderstood,” Feinstein said. “I mean, I think she’s going to send it over when she’s ready to send it over, essentially.”She added that she does not have an issue with Pelosi’s strategy.On Wednesday, Feinstein had publicly called for Pelosi to send the articles to the Senate.“If we’re going to do it, she should send them over,” Feinstein said, according to Bloomberg News. “I don’t see what good delay does.”GOP senators think Pelosi will send over articles by end of week, Cornyn saysReturn to menuBy Elise Viebeck3:10 p.m.Senate Republicans are speculating that Pelosi will transmit the articles of impeachment to the Senate by the end of the week, Sen. John Cornyn (R-Tex.) said after Thursday’s GOP conference luncheon.“She’s like anybody, I think, under those circumstances,” Cornyn said. “When you’re in a bad spot, you kind of look for, ‘How am I going to get a break here — because of a tweet or something else that I hadn’t anticipated that gives me cover for getting out of this spot?’ She said it will be soon, and hopefully it will be soon. The speculation at lunch was that it will be this week, come over at the end of this week, like tomorrow. But we’re speculating.”GOP lawmaker introduces resolution to censure Pelosi for ‘abuse of power’Return to menuBy Felicia Sonmez1:30 p.m.Rep. Bradley Byrne (R-Ala.) introduced a resolution Thursday that would censure Pelosi for “abuse of power” for not sending the articles of impeachment to the Senate.The measure stands little chance of being taken up in the Democratic-controlled House.In a statement, Byrne called Pelosi’s decision to withhold the articles “a pathetic and unconstitutional attempt to extract concessions from the Senate.”“House Democrats made the misguided decision to rush through the most legally unsound and factually unsupported articles of impeachment in the history of this country, and they can’t now insist that the Senate fix their shoddy, incomplete work,” said Byrne, who is running for a U.S. Senate seat.Trump raises concerns about ‘presidential privilege’ when asked about potential Bolton testimonyReturn to menuBy John Wagner and Felicia Sonmez12:00 p.m.Trump said Thursday that it would be up to the Senate on whether to call former national security adviser John Bolton as a witness in the impeachment trial and said he wouldn’t stop Bolton from testifying — but added that he has concerns about “presidential privilege.”“We have to protect presidential privilege,” Trump told reporters during an event in the Oval Office, adding that national security advisers cannot “say whatever they want to say.”Bolton said this week that he is prepared to testify in a Senate trial if a subpoena is issued. He declined to participate in the House impeachment inquiry at the direction of the White House.Trump told reporters that he “always got along” with Bolton, notwithstanding differences Bolton had with some other administration officials.The president also declined to say whether he would be in favor of a deal that would include witness testimony from the Bidens and other Democrats.“Well, I’m going to leave it to the Senate. But I’d like to hear the whistleblower. I’d like to hear Shifty Schiff,” Trump said, referring to House Intelligence Committee Chairman Adam B. Schiff (D-Calif.), a major player in the House impeachment proceedings. “I’d like to hear Hunter Biden and Joe Biden. … The informer that never showed up. … And the second whistleblower.”McConnell says Pelosi has created ‘bipartisan unity’ in opposition to her stanceReturn to menuMcConnell seized on the growing number of Democrats calling on Pelosi to send the articles to the Senate, saying in a tweet that she had created “bipartisan unity.”“This is a challenging time to create bipartisan agreement,” McConnell tweeted. “But Speaker Pelosi has managed to do the impossible. She has created growing bipartisan unity — in opposition to her own reckless games with impeachment.”Pelosi says she won’t hold on to impeachment articles indefinitelyReturn to menuBy Felicia Sonmez11:10 a.m.At her weekly news conference, Pelosi defended her decision to withhold the articles of impeachment and continued to press McConnell to define the contours of a Senate trial.“We need to see the arena to which we are sending our managers. Is that too much to ask?” Pelosi said.She emphasized, however, that she will likely send the articles over to the Senate “soon” and that Democrats will move “smartly and strategically.”“I’m not holding them indefinitely,” she said. “I’ll send them over when I’m ready. And that will probably be soon.”She also ridiculed McConnell’s statement earlier Thursday that the Senate will move forward with consideration of the U.S.-Canada-Mexico Trade Agreement, which the House has already passed.“They say they pass the [USMCA],” she said. “Well, okay!”She also said that, as in the impeachment of President Bill Clinton, Democrats hope that “there would have been a bipartisan resolution determining how to proceed.”Asked why she hadn’t sent over the articles and turned over negotiations to Senate Minority Leader Charles E. Schumer (D-N.Y.), Pelosi said, “I’m not responsible to Mitch McConnell or anybody else except my members and the people that have worked so hard on this. Members and staff. Patriots honoring the oath of office, the Constitution of the United States. And I will give them our best shot to find the truth for our bosses — the American people.”Several Democrats back Pelosi’s positionReturn to menuBy Mike DeBonis10:50 a.m.Several fellow Democrats spoke out Thursday in defense of Pelosi’s position of continuing to hold on to the articles of impeachment.“A year from now, none of you are going to remember whether we sent the articles on Jan. 9 or Jan. 18 or Jan. 25,” said Rep. Tom Malinowski (N.J.). “You will remember how this ends. That’s what’s important.”Rep. Earl Blumenauer (Ore.), who pushed for the hold strategy last month, said when to transmit the articles remains “a call for the speaker.”“I think being deliberate, not rushing it, is absolutely the right thing to do,” he said. “And I think each day verifies the wisdom.”Rep. Jim Costa (Calif.), meanwhile, said the transmission “will be sooner than later.”“There’s just a whole lot of reasons why it has to be sooner than later,” he said, citing considerations of senators and upcoming presidential nominating contests. “I just think there’s a shelf life to this.”