    The jobs report figure exceeded most mainstream forecasts for October growth. | REUTERS After a week consumed by Hurricane Sandy, the election’s final jobs report snapped the focus back to the economy Friday as President Barack Obama and Mitt Romney rejoined their battle.  In the end, the final jobs report before Election Day paints a picture of the U.S. economy that looks a lot like the 2012 campaign itself: a long, grinding march forward with little in the way of big inspiration that still slightly favors Obama.  The gain of 171,000 jobs in October beat expectations but the increase in the jobless rate to 7.9 percent from 7.8 percent denied the president a clean chance to trumpet a quickening recovery as he begins his final pitch.  Both campaigns used the report to buttress their economic message one last time before voters head to the polls Tuesday.  ( PHOTOS: Final countdown to Election Day)  “He said he was going to lower the unemployment rate down to 5.2 percent right now, today we learned that it is actually 7.9 percent and that’s 9 million jobs short of what he promised,” Romney said during a campaign stop in West Allis, Wisconsin.. “Unemployment is higher today than when Barack Obama took office.”  Unemployment was at 7.8 percent when Obama moved into the White House in January 2009 and peaked around 10 percent in October of that year. A year ago at this time, unemployment was at 9 percent.  Romney’s surrogates sought to portray the jump in jobs growth as far from good and any suggestion to the contrary as falling short of what should be expected.  “Our expectations may be dumbed down a bit,” Glenn Hubbard, the campaign’s top economic adviser, said in a CNBC interview about the idea that Friday’s jobs news is positive.  Obama and White House officials highlighted the continuing trend of job growth as reason to stay the course.  ( Also on POLITICO: Liberals fear grand bargain betrayal)  “In 2008 we were in the middle of two wars and the worst economic crisis since the Great Depression and today our businesses have created nearly five and a half million new jobs and this morning we learned that companies hired more workers in October than in any time in the last eight months,” Obama said at a campaign rally in Hilliard, Ohio.  Whatever the spin, with swing-state polls suggesting Obama is slightly ahead, he did not need a home run number on Friday.  He just needed to avoid disaster and he certainly did that.  Romney arguably needed a much more dismal reading in order to crank up the heat on his closing argument that Obama has failed miserably on the economy and must be replaced.  He did not get it.  Overall, the October gains are in line with the recent trend and unlikely to change the arc of a campaign with just days remaining and almost no one left undecided. “These job numbers shouldn’t play an important role in the election,” said Moody’s Analytics chief economist Mark Zandi. “They are not strong enough to help the president, not weak enough to help Governor Romney.”  John Silvia, chief economist at Wells Fargo, said the report might be a modest benefit to Obama but does not change the overall picture of the economy. “It’s better than expectations and prior months were revised higher. We’ve got sustained growth of about 2 percent a year and no return to recession,” he said. The jobless rate went up a tick because more people started looking for work, a positive sign for the economy. The Labor Department said the civilian labor force rose by 578,000 to 155.6 million in October, and the labor force participation rate edged up to 63.8 percent.  While the numbers themselves don’t provide clean talking points for Romney they at least allow him to turn the focus, if only briefly, back to the economy during a period where the campaign has been largely eclipsed by the damage wrought to the northeast by Hurricane Sandy. And no one is arguing that the economy has entered a period of gangbusters growth. Romney can still point to a jobless rate that has proved fatal to every incumbent since Franklin Delano Roosevelt.  But while recent jobs reports have been mostly modest and the unemployment rate remains high, a number of other economic indicators are doing somewhat better, helping explain why Obama remains the slight favorite. The Conference Board reported this week that its gauge of consumer confidence hit 72.2 in October, the highest level since February of 2008.  And consumer sentiment tends to be a better reflection of voter attitudes than the jobless rate. “That’s a measure of how [people are] feeling, rather than a number that’s telling them how to feel,” said George Washington University economist Tara Sinclair.  The fact that the housing market appears to have hit bottom and started coming back is also helping Obama and making Romney’s job more difficult. The S&P/Case-Shiller index of house prices this week showed its fifth-consecutive monthly gain. The increases are small and house prices are still way below where they were before the real-estate bubble burst in 2008. But any increase in house prices tends to make people feel wealthier, more apt to spend money and less grumpy about incumbent politicians.  Obama is also clearly continuing to benefit from the fact that several swing states—notably Ohio at 7 percent, Virginia at 5.9 percent and Wisconsin at 7 percent—are doing better than the national average. Florida, by contrast, has been a much tougher state for Obama in 2012 in large part because its jobless rate, at 8.7 percent is well above the national figure.  Economists warn not to read too much into one month’s report, arguing it is the longer term trend that is important. But with the economy a central them in this year’s election the monthly jobs report has become a sort of political scoreboard giving both campaigns at times a reason to cheer over the past year.  “Obviously, a report like this just a few days before a tight election is going to be a very big deal, and both campaigns will use the results in predictable ways,” Former Obama administration economist Jared Bernstein wrote on his blog. “But if there’s anyone out there who’s making up their mind based on this one report, please don’t.”  Updates to previous months’ figures show the employment picture was better than originally reported. Labor revised its September growth jobs figure to 148,000, up from its initial estimate of 114,000 jobs. The department released a final August figure of 192,000, up from its most recent estimate of 142,000.  The latest jobs report also serves as a reminder of just how little things have really changed over the past two years despite the noise each month when the numbers come out: The economy has added an average of 157,000 jobs per month thus far in 2012. The 2011 average? A gain of 153,000 jobs. 
