Opinion|The Indefensible Marriage Acthttps://www.nytimes.com/2013/03/28/opinion/the-indefensible-marriage-act.htmlEditorialMarch 27, 2013The discrimination embedded in the Defense of Marriage Act is precise yet sweeping. The 1996 statute defines marriage as the union of a man and a woman, and applies that definition to about 1,100 federal laws and programs. One of its many discriminatory results is that same-sex couples are prohibited from collecting many federal benefits available to other couples. That now includes people legally married in nine states and the District of Columbia, plus 18,000 couples who were legally married in California before 2008 when Proposition 8 banned same-sex marriage there. Solicitor General Donald Verrilli Jr., who is known for his reserve, was unhesitating before the Supreme Court on Wednesday when it heard the Defense of Marriage Act case: “I think it’s time for the court to recognize that this discrimination, excluding lawfully married gay and lesbian couples from federal benefits, cannot be reconciled with our fundamental commitment to equal treatment under law.” It appeared that a majority of the justices, including the likely swing vote, Justice Anthony Kennedy, had serious doubts as to whether the law served any legitimate purpose.Justice Kennedy, however, seemed primarily interested in questioning the law for the wrong reasons, concerned that the Defense of Marriage Act interferes in the primary right of states to regulate marriage and its benefits. Only the four more liberal justices appeared to focus on the reality that what is at stake here is not federalism but fairness. States can regulate marriage but they cannot discriminate while doing so, and leaving gay and lesbian couples out of the equation violates the Constitution’s guarantee of equal protection just as much as banning interracial marriage.Paul Clement, who was defending the act on behalf of the House of Representatives, said its only purpose was to ensure uniformity in distributing federal marriage benefits. But Justice Elena Kagan dismissed that notion, suggesting that Congress’s judgment in passing the act was “infected by dislike, by fear, by animus.” Quoting from the House’s legislative history, she said, “Congress decided to reflect an honor of collective moral judgment and to express moral disapproval of homosexuality.” That clear animus on the part of lawmakers explains why the court must strike down the law on equal-protection grounds, as a federal appeals court did last fall. The government needs to have an “exceptionally good” reason to justify treating gay men and lesbians differently, that court ruled, and Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg made a similar point today, saying that the law created “two kinds of marriage: the full marriage and then this sort of skim-milk marriage.” Still, no matter what grounds the court eventually uses to strike down the Defense of Marriage Act, getting rid of it would be a huge step forward in the national movement toward marriage equality. Once it is clear that the only thing standing between same-sex couples and federal benefits is an ideological state legislature, the pressure will accelerate on states to do the right thing, particularly in states like Virginia with large numbers of federal employees.The Supreme Court now has an opportunity to end the federal role in this discrimination — and to do so with a ringing affirmation of the importance of basic fairness.