The 2000 election was so close that it came down to 537 votes in one state, so close that the Supreme Court ended up deciding who would be the next president – five weeks after the election.Was America divided? We sure thought so back then. I spent most of the next year traveling between Montclair, New Jersey, and Franklin, Tennessee, two towns that voted heavily for Democrat Al Gore and Republican George W. Bush, respectively, and wrote a series for USA TODAY called One Nation, Divided.My final day of research for the entire project was on Sept. 11, 2001, in Montclair. When a plane crashed into a World Trade Center tower, photographer Tim Dillon and I rushed to Lookout Point at the Eagle Rock Reservation – 12 miles across the Hudson River with a perfect view of Lower Manhattan – and watched both towers collapse in smoke.Reflecting on this project now, on the 20th anniversary of the Sept. 11 attacks, it’s like seeing a sepia nation – an innocent time before social media; when people called each other on the phone to deliver news; when we considered ourselves divided and polarized and had no inkling of what those terms would come to mean in the Trump presidency. Back then, the “loser” of the election conceded graciously although he had won a half-million more popular votes and “lost” Florida in a flawed, capricious process in a state run by the brother of the “winner.” Nine months later, tides of trauma and patriotism swept all that aside.We didn’t scrap the project. Instead we did another poll and visited each town to determine the impact of the terrorist attacks. The political and cultural values of their residents had not changed. We found the same divides as ever on guns, taxes, abortion, religion and, at that time, civil unions for gay people.Yet the empathy, unity and public patriotism were striking, from “I ❤️ NY” signs on store doors in Franklin to American flags all over Montclair. After the 2000 presidential election, we asked in our November 2001 poll, did you think the nation was deeply divided? In Montclair, 65% said yes; in Franklin, 62%. And how about now? The drop after 9/11 was precipitous, to 15% in Montclair and 7% in Franklin.The tragedy of today's politicsWhat has happened to our politics since then is a tragedy. Back then, we had shared facts and our own divergent opinions about them. Now we have conservative political and media ecosystems that spread lies and distortions, creating an entirely separate and sometimes life-threatening reality for those in its grip. How much have things changed? Fox News averaged 1.12 million prime-time viewers during the tense Bush-Gore election week of 2000. In the month of October 2020, another high-intensity political period, the network set a record for prime-time cable, drawing an average 4.9 million viewers. The Pew Research Center reports that Republican trust in national media has fallen by half, from 70% to 35%, since Donald Trump's 2016 campaign for president (as Democrats held steady at roughly 8 in 10). As for trust in medicine and elections, we have people taking horse and cow medication instead of lifesaving vaccines in the face of a deadly virus. We have voting technology companies suing people and media outlets for lying about them. We have violent insurrectionists who stormed the Capitol to try to overturn President Joe Biden's "rigged" victory. Some of them wanted to kill Vice President Mike Pence and House Speaker Nancy Pelosi. The toll of deaths and suicides on or after that day continues to rise. We even have a congressman talking of "bloodshed" over future "stolen" elections.None of this is coincidental. Underlying it all, as both cause and effect, is Trump's flamboyant, insistent rejection of facts and science – a former president who even now won’t admit he lost the 2020 election and has a third of the country still telling pollsters he won. The Capitol attack was unimaginable 20 years ago or even 10. Nothing could have made it more clear that, as Attorney General Merrick Garland and the FBI have said, white supremacists and militia groups are the top threat to domestic security – and deserve the same focus as the international terrorism that stunned us in 2001 and led us into two wars. Jan. 6 investigation: In vetoing Jordan and Banks, Pelosi safeguards history, democracy and Capitol attack probeBut we're divided on that as well. Democrats and a few Republicans take white supremacist violence and Jan. 6 very seriously, while some conservatives dismiss our first nonpeaceful transfer of power as no big deal. We're most unified about our disunityIf you're desperate to find unity, well, almost everyone in both parties agrees we are divided on important values. Beyond that, we don't even agree anymore on whether it should be easy to vote. Or whether we should welcome immigrants and refugees – even those arriving from Afghanistan after our agonizing yet inevitable departure last month. The "forever war" President George W. Bush started in Afghanistan, first to destroy al-Qaida and weaken the Taliban and then to turn Afghanistan into a functioning democracy, will be remembered forever. But his "compassionate conservatism" of inclusion on race, religion and immigration is a memory so distant it seems we might have imagined it. Mark it on your calendar:January 6, 2025 could be the date American democracy dies "The terrorist attacks have highlighted at least two values shared by Montclair and Franklin: love of a country that embraces communities as different as they are, and fury at anyone who threatens it," I wrote in 2002.It's a heartwarming affirmation of the diversity we once understood to be the foundation our national greatness. Polarization now is not a political phase or phenomenon; it's a disease. It's deeper and more poisonous than any divisions we had before or after the devastating attack on the homeland 20 years ago. And it's homegrown in the United States of America.Jill Lawrence is a columnist for USA TODAY and author of "The Art of the Political Deal: How Congress Beat the Odds and Broke Through Gridlock." Follow her on Twitter: @JillDLawrence