    Schumer, McCain, Bennet and Flake are among those negotiating the details. It’s not the inclusion of a pathway to citizenship that has immigration reform proponents worried — at this point, it’s clear that this will be part of any deal Senate negotiators produce.  It’s how difficult they choose to make it.  The prospects of a bipartisan immigration deal improved dramatically with the weekend announcement of an agreement between labor and business on a visa program for low-skilled workers. But the real test will come after the Senate’s Gang of Eight reveals the fine print of the entire reform package next week.  Nowhere is that more true than on the pathway to citizenship.  ( PHOTOS: At a glance, the Senate immigration plan)  The arcane details and sensitive politics in the decision to go hard, soft or somewhere in between on the hurdles to legalization has so far been part of an under-the-radar debate, while attention has focused on sticking points such as the low-skilled visas.  But with the Gang of Eight taking another step closer to a deal, the balance it strikes on the path to citizenship details — including penalties, fees and requirements for legal permanent residence — now will be as consequential as any of the higher-profile issues. It will help determine both the political viability of the bill and how many of the country’s 11 million undocumented immigrants ultimately get a shot at citizenship.  ( Also on POLITICO: Rubio: Reports of immigration deal 'premature')  “The sleeper issue in immigration reform is, do all 11 million people qualify for legal status or is it a fraction?” said Deepak Bhargava, executive director of the Center for Community Change, a pro-reform group. “This issue is the potential deal-breaker in the whole mix. If the requirements are so onerous that only a fraction of eligible people can actually adjust their status and get legal, there will be a hugely negative reaction to the bill in the immigrant community.”  The Gang of Eight has sought to make the pathway tough enough so that Republicans can convince their party that it’s not amnesty — but not so onerous that they lose support from the left, and risk repeating mistakes from past reform efforts.  ( See Also: Matt Wuerker on immigration)  Democrats are under intense pressure from the White House, labor unions and immigrant advocates to craft as clear of a path as possible to legal status and citizenship. That means no border-security benchmarks that must be met before undocumented immigrants can secure citizenship. No exorbitant fines and fees. And realistic requirements for proving work history, learning English and passing criminal background checks. But the Democrats also recognize that Republicans, by endorsing legalization, are already at the outer edge of what their party will accept and will need to inoculate themselves from the amnesty charge.  The hurdles to obtaining probationary legal status under the Gang of Eight plan would be minimal — a small fine and a criminal background check — because there’s an interest in making it easy for all undocumented immigrants to step forward, sources said. The Senate group initially considered forcing payment of back taxes at this point in the process, but the proposal has been difficult to craft, the sources said.  The next step — a decade-long wait for legal permanent residence — wouldn’t be as simple.  First, the border would need to be designated as secure. That’s a step that President Barack Obama and immigrant advocates have opposed because they’re concerned that politics would keep the certification from ever happening, leaving 11 million immigrants in a second-class probationary status.  Then there are the costs of obtaining a green card. Under the Senate plan, the price tag will reach into the “thousands,” according to one source, who points out that applicants would have at least a decade to save for the penalties and fees. These fines would help offset the cost of the bill, which is expected to include billions of dollars in new spending for border security alone.  By contrast, a White House draft bill sets a $500 fine for immigrants seeking legal permanent residence.  Immigrants would also need to pass additional background checks, learn English and civics, demonstrate a U.S. work history and prove current employment before becoming a legal permanent resident, according to a framework released by the Gang of Eight in January.  A bipartisan negotiating group in the House is even considering having undocumented immigrants “plead guilty” to breaking immigration laws, according to sources involved in the talks.  “It will be earned, it will be long, and it will be hard,” Sen. Lindsey Graham (R-S.C.) said Sunday on CNN’s “State of the Union.”  Opponents of comprehensive immigration reform aren’t buying the claims.  “No matter how it is tweaked, there are certain physics to it,” said Bob Dane, a spokesman for Federation for American Immigration Reform, which seeks to restrict immigration. “It encourages illegal behavior. It is fundamentally unfair to those who come here legally. You can’t bend the fact that, by definition, it is amnesty.”  Most immigrant advocates agree that the path to citizenship should be lined with at least some speed bumps. But the details are what matter to them.  The greater the restrictions, the fewer undocumented immigrants who would seek legal permanent status, according to a 2011 study from the Migration Policy Institute, a nonpartisan Washington think tank. For example, Congress could require that immigrants attain an advanced level of English proficiency, which 56 percent of the population doesn’t meet, the study found. Immigrants would have a decade to learn the language, but setting the bar in the mid-to-high range would require at least $10 billion to vastly expand English as a Second Language instruction, which is already underfunded, the report concluded.  High fines would also deter undocumented immigrants from seeking a green card, the Migration Policy Institute found. Penalties in the 2007 reform bill would have totaled $10,000, a major sticking point for advocates who deemed the price tag unworkable when the median household income of undocumented families was about $36,000.  Another hurdle is verifying employment history. Immigrant advocates say the requirements need to be flexible enough to account for the more than 1 million unauthorized women who are stay-at-moms or primary caregivers.  Even the date of eligibility could slice out a significant portion of the population. The 1986 law left millions of immigrants undocumented because lawmakers set the cut-off date for eligibility for four years earlier — a move that experts say helped fuel the growth in the current undocumented population.  “That is as important to us as citizenship,” said Frank Sharry, a veteran of the 2006 and 2007 legislative fights and executive director of America’s Voice, a pro-reform group. “If the requirements are restrictive, instead of legalizing 11 million, you can end up legalizing 8 million and then you have really sown the seeds of the failure of the bill.”  Liberal groups have pressed this message with lawmakers. Presente.org, a Latino advocacy group, turned the Migration Policy Institute study into a PowerPoint presentation and shopped it around Washington in a bid to push back on the call for toughness.  The pleas haven’t really persuaded key negotiators. The need for tight restrictions hasn’t been the source of any major disagreement among the Gang of Eight, according to sources.  But it is likely to be one of the most scrutinized elements once the deliberations leave the backroom.  “My instinct is they want to be inclusive in who is eligible,” said Angela Kelley, a leading immigration expert with the Center for American Progress. “They recognize you want to try to have a program that permits as many people as possible to come forward. … I think it will be an accessible road but a long road.” 
