The sharp exchanges in the Nevada debate reflected the urgency of the moment as Michael Bloomberg, in his first presidential debate, was repeatedly criticized in personal terms.VideotranscripttranscriptWatch: Highlights From the Democratic DebateSix Democrats took the stage on Wednesday in Las Vegas, three days before the Nevada caucuses. Among them was a new face: former Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg of New York.“I’m a New Yorker. I know how to take on an arrogant con man like Donald Trump.” “I’d like to talk about who we’re running against: a billionaire who calls women fat broads and horse-faced lesbians. And no, I’m not talking about Donald Trump. I’m talking about Mayor Bloomberg.” “You should also ask how Mayor Bloomberg in 2004 supported George W. Bush for president.” “The mayor says that he has a great record, that he’s done these wonderful things. Well, the fact — the fact of the matter is, he has not managed his city very, very well when he was there.” “Senator Klobuchar, my colleague specifically asked you if you could name the president of Mexico —” “Yes —” “— and your response was no.” “You’re literally in part of the committee that’s overseeing these things.” “Are you trying to say that I’m dumb? Are you mocking me here, Pete?” “I’m saying that you shouldn’t trivialize that knowledge.” “I said I made an error. No, no, no, no. You, Pete — you, Pete —” “Hello, hello, hello, hello. Thank you.” “The best-known socialist in the country happens to be a millionaire with three houses — what did I miss here?” “Well, you missed that I work in Washington, house 1 —” “That’s the first problem.” “— live in Burlington, house 2 —” “That’s good.” “— and like thousands of other Vermonters, I do have a summer camp. Forgive me for that. Where is your home? Which tax, which tax haven do you have your home?” “New York — New York City, thank you very much.” “We shouldn’t have to choose between one candidate who wants to burn this party down and another candidate who wants to buy this party out.” “If speaking to the needs and the pain of a long-neglected working class is polarizing, I think you got the wrong word.” “I’ve apologized, I’ve asked for forgiveness, but the bottom line is —” “We stopped too many people, and we’ve got to make sure that we do something about criminal justice in this country.” “I make a lot of money.” “They’ll be out in a few weeks. And that’s just as fast as I can do it.” “He has gotten some number of women — dozens? who knows — to sign nondisclosure agreements both for sexual harassment and for gender discrimination in the workplace.” “We have a very few nondisclosure agreements —” “How many is that?” “Let me finish —” “How many is that?” “None of them accuse me of doing anything other than, maybe they didn’t like a joke I told, and let me just, let me —” “I just want to be clear: Some is how many? And, and when you — and when you say they signed them, and they wanted them, if they wish now to speak out and tell their side of the story about what it is they allege, that’s now OK with you? You’re releasing them on television tonight?” “Senator, no.” “Is that right?”Six Democrats took the stage on Wednesday in Las Vegas, three days before the Nevada caucuses. Among them was a new face: former Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg of New York.CreditCredit...Erin Schaff/The New York TimesFeb. 19, 2020LAS VEGAS — The Democratic presidential candidates turned on one another in scorching and personal terms in a debate on Wednesday night, with two of the leading candidates, Senator Bernie Sanders and Michael R. Bloomberg, forced onto the defensive repeatedly throughout the evening.In his first appearance in a presidential debate, Mr. Bloomberg, the former mayor of New York City, struggled from the start to address his past support for stop-and-frisk policing and the allegations he has faced over the years of crude and disrespectful behavior toward women. Time and again, Mr. Bloomberg had obvious difficulty countering criticism that could threaten him in a Democratic Party that counts women and African-Americans among its most important constituencies.Two candidates who have shied away from direct conflict in past debates, Senator Elizabeth Warren of Massachusetts and former Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr., mounted something of a tag-team onslaught against Mr. Bloomberg, several times leaving him visibly irked and straining to respond.From the first seconds, when Mr. Sanders used the initial question to attack what he called Mr. Bloomberg’s “outrageous” policing record, it was clear that this debate would be far more heated than any of the previous forums. The unrelenting attacks reflected the urgency of the moment, as Mr. Sanders gains strength and those hoping to slow his candidacy are increasingly crowded out by Mr. Bloomberg and his unprecedented spending spree.Ms. Warren landed the most stinging blows against Mr. Bloomberg throughout the debate, starting with an opening broadside that likened him to the figure most reviled among Democrats: President Trump.“I’d like to talk about who we’re running against: a billionaire who calls women fat broads and horse-faced lesbians,” Ms. Warren said. “And no, I’m not talking about Donald Trump. I’m talking about Mayor Bloomberg.”ImageCredit...Erin Schaff/The New York TimesListen to ‘The Latest’: The Nevada DebateWith candidates running out of time to change the race, the attacks became personal.transcripttranscriptListen to ‘The Latest’: The Nevada DebateHosted by Alex Burns, produced by Alexandra Leigh Young and Neena Pathak, and edited by Lisa TobinWith candidates running out of time to change the race, the attacks became personal.[music]archived recordingThere are still so many questions about what happened in Iowa. You can see that Pete Buttigieg is presently leading the state delegate count with 27%; Bernie Sanders with 25%. Candidates are already looking toward New Hampshire.archived recording (bernie sanders)Let me take this opportunity —To thank the people of New Hampshire for a great victory tonight.archived recordingModerate candidates, Pete Buttigieg and Senator Amy Klobuchar trailed Sanders to round up —[music]archived recordingBreaking news from the Democratic presidential race, where a national poll out this morning shows the former New York mayor is now in second place with 19% support behind Bernie Sanders. Michael Bloomberg, whose rise in the polls is fueled by more than $300 million in ad spending. Mayor Bloomberg has not appeared on a single debate stage or a single ballot, but that will change tonight.alex burnsIt’s Alex Burns in Las Vegas, where Wednesday night’s Democratic debate was held ahead of the Nevada caucuses this weekend.[music]archived recordingFrom NBC news, the Democratic Presidential Debate, live from Las Vegas, Nevada.alex burnsThis was a debate we were all really waiting for because it was first time Mayor Bloomberg has appeared on the stage. And really, it’s the first time he has engaged with other Democratic candidates at all since entering the race. Polls released over the last few days have shown Bloomberg overtaking Joe Biden, nationally, as the moderate runner-up to Bernie Sanders, the front runner, thanks to hundreds of millions of dollars that Bloomberg has poured into advertising. But for most Americans, this was the first time that they have really been introduced to the man himself. So going in, we knew that all the other candidates were going to try to make that a rough introduction to scuff up the glossy image of himself that Bloomberg puts in TV ads. And right away, they did.archived recording (amy klobuchar)I think we need something different than Donald Trump. I don’t think you look at Donald Trump and say, we need someone richer in the White House.archived recording (lester holt)Thank you. Mayor Bloomberg —archived recording (elizabeth warren)Democrats are not going to win if we have a nominee who has a history of hiding his tax returns, of harassing women, and of supporting racist policies like redlining and stop-and-frisk.archived recording (joe biden)Stop-and-frisk.archived recording (bernie sanders)Stop-and-frisk, which went after African-American and Latino people in an outrageous way.archived recording (joe biden)Throwing close to five million young black men up against the wall.archived recording (bernie sanders)That is not a way you’re going to grow voter turnout.alex burnsThey, of course, went after stop-and-frisk, his invasive policing policy as mayor of New York.archived recording (lester holt)Mayor Bloomberg, at the beginning of this debate, you took some incoming fire on this next topic, so let’s get into it. At 2015, this is how you described your policing policy as mayor. Quote, “We put all the cops in the minority neighborhoods.” And you explain that is, quote, “because that’s where all the crime is.”alex burnsAnd early on, NBC moderator, Lester Holt, asked Bloomberg to address it.archived recording (lester holt)You went on to say, “And the way you should get the guns out of the kids’ hands is to throw them against the wall and frisk them.” You’ve apologized for that policy. But what does that kind of language say about how you view people of color or people in minority neighborhoods?archived recording (michael bloomberg)Well, if I go back and look at my time in office, the one thing that I’m really worried about, embarrassed about was how it turned out with stop-and-frisk. And we started a — we adopted a policy, which had been in place, the policy that all big police departments use — of stop-and-frisk. What happened, however, was it got out of control.alex burnsFrom the beginning, he struggled with his responses.archived recording (michael bloomberg)And we have to keep the lid on crime. But we cannot go out and stop people —archived recording (lester holt)All right, mayor.archived recording (michael bloomberg)— indiscriminately.archived recording (lester holt)Mayor, thank you. Let me go to —alex burnsThis was the number one question that Bloomberg would have known was coming. More than any other policy issue, this is the one his campaign has worried about from the start of the race. But —archived recording (michael bloomberg)I’ve sat. I’ve apologized. I’ve asked for forgiveness. But the problem —alex burnsBloomberg is a man known for his political agility, or his comfort expressing contrition, or for his thick skin. And it showed.archived recording (michael bloomberg)And if we took off everybody that was wrong off this panel, everybody that was wrong on criminal justice at some time in their careers, there’d be nobody else up here.alex burnsAnd the attacks were just sort of unrelenting. Up until this point, Elizabeth Warren has mostly avoided direct confrontation in debates with other candidates. She has been calling herself, “the unity candidate.” But she took a totally different approach, a far more aggressive approach. And Mike Bloomberg was her favorite target.archived recording (elizabeth warren)I’d like to talk about who we’re running against.alex burnsShe landed some of the most stinging blows in the debate, drawing a connection between Bloomberg and public enemy number one for the Democrats.archived recording (elizabeth warren)A billionaire who calls women, “fat broads” and “horse-faced lesbians.” And no, I’m not talking about Donald Trump; I’m talking about Mayor Bloomberg. Democrats are not going to win —alex burnsPerhaps, the most contentious exchange of the night, and the toughest one for Bloomberg, was a lengthy back and forth between him and both Warren and Joe Biden about a number of women who have signed nondisclosure agreements with Bloomberg and his company.archived recording (elizabeth warren)He has gotten some number of women — dozens? who knows — to sign nondisclosure agreements both for sexual harassment and for gender discrimination in the workplace. So Mr. Mayor, are you willing to release all of those women from those nondisclosure agreements so we can hear their side of the story? [APPLAUSE]archived recording (michael bloomberg)We have a very few nondisclosure agreements.archived recording (elizabeth warren)How many is that?archived recording (michael bloomberg)Let me finish.archived recording (elizabeth warren)How many is that?archived recording (michael bloomberg)None of them accused me of doing anything other than — maybe they didn’t like the joke I told. And let me just point — [CROWD MURMURING] — and let me point — those would be agreements between two parties that wanted to keep it quiet. And that’s up to them. They signed those agreements, and we’ll live with it.alex burnsWarren challenged him over and over to release those women from the NDAs and let them speak openly about their experiences.archived recording (elizabeth warren)And when you say they signed them, and they wanted them. If they wish now to speak out and tell their side of the story about what it is they allege, that’s now OK with you? You’re releasing them on television tonight?archived recording (michael bloomberg)Senator, no.archived recording (elizabeth warren)Is that right?alex burnsBloomberg said he would not do it.archived recording (elizabeth warren)Tonight?archived recording (michael bloomberg)Senator, the company and somebody else, in this case — the man or a woman, or could be more than that, they decided when they made an agreement, that they wanted to keep it quiet for everybody’s interest.archived recording (elizabeth warren)No.archived recording (joe biden)Come on.archived recording (michael bloomberg)They signed the agreements. And that’s what we’re going to live with.archived recording (elizabeth warren)I’m sorry. No. The question is —archived recording (michael bloomberg)I heard your question.archived recording (elizabeth warren)— are the women bound by —alex burnsBut the latest is what these attacks reflect about the state of the Democratic race and the urgency that the candidates are feeling in this moment. Bernie Sanders’s lead is looking increasingly strong heading into the Nevada caucuses. And as we’ve talked about many times, part of that has to do with the fact that the more moderate candidates are dividing the votes amongst themselves, making it harder for any one of them to emerge as a clear alternative to Sanders. Now, in comes Michael Bloomberg with all of his money and his power and name recognition. But so far, he has done more to slow down fellow moderates than to thwart Bernie Sanders.archived recording (pete buttigieg)Senator, when you say that you disowned these attacks, and you didn’t personally direct them, I believe you.archived recording (bernie sanders)Well, thank you.archived recording (pete buttigieg)But at a certain point, you got to ask yourself, why did this pattern arise? Why is it especially the case among your support?archived recording (bernie sanders)I don’t think it is especially the case, by the way.archived recording (pete buttigieg)That’s just not true. Look —archived recording (bernie sanders)Well, people know —alex burnsAnd so that meant it wasn’t just Bloomberg on the defensive. The other Democrats also had to take on Sanders, himself.archived recording (michael bloomberg)What a wonderful country we have. The best-known socialist in the country happens to be a millionaire with three houses. What’d I miss here? [CROWD MURMURING]archived recording (bernie sanders)Well, you’ll miss that I work in Washington, house one.archived recording (michael bloomberg)That’s the first problem.archived recording (bernie sanders)Live in Burlington, house two.alex burnsAnd they had to take on each other.archived recording (pete buttigieg)Of the country to ourself.archived recording (amy klobuchar)Are you trying to say that I’m dumb? Or are you mocking me here, Pete?archived recording (pete buttigieg)I’m saying that you shouldn’t trivialize —archived recording (amy klobuchar)I said I made —alex burnsThere was more open hostility, more personal bitterness in this two-hour debate than in perhaps all the other debates combined. And that’s because the stakes for the candidates are higher now. And for many of them, really for almost all of them, time may be close to running out.[music] So that’s the latest. It was not only Mr. Sanders and Mr. Bloomberg who were subjected to withering criticism: Senator Amy Klobuchar of Minnesota and former Mayor Pete Buttigieg of South Bend, Ind., also engaged in a bitter and lengthy colloquy about foreign policy and their qualifications for the presidency, culminating in a sharp exchange in which Ms. Klobuchar asked Mr. Buttigieg if he was calling her “dumb.”There was little in the debate to suggest that Mr. Sanders, the national front-runner and the favorite to win Nevada’s caucuses on Saturday, had been knocked off balance, and the pile-on against Mr. Bloomberg had the potential to work in Mr. Sanders’s favor by keeping the focus of hostilities elsewhere.But Mr. Sanders, too, was pressed to address some of the persistent questions about his candidacy, including whether he would release a fuller version of his medical records and why his candidacy appears to inspire uniquely vitriolic behavior by some of his supporters on the internet. Mr. Sanders, Vermont’s junior senator, insisted that nearly all of his online fans were good and decent people, but said he would “disown those people” who behave in deplorable ways.Nobody acted with more urgency than Ms. Warren, who finished a distant fourth in New Hampshire after doing little to stand out in the debate there. She repeatedly inserted herself into main currents of the conversation. The challenge for her, though, is that her newfound vigor came after tens of thousands of Nevadans had already cast their ballots in early voting.It was Ms. Warren who initiated the exchange that may have damaged Mr. Bloomberg the most when she repeatedly demanded to know whether he would be willing to release some of the former female employees at his news media organization from the nondisclosure agreements they had signed. He declined to do so, calling the agreements “consensual,” and minimized the underlying complaints by suggesting that the women merely “didn’t like a joke I told.”After pressing Mr. Bloomberg and leaving him flustered, but unable to coax him into releasing the women she said he had “muzzled,” Ms. Warren then broadened her attack.“We are not going to beat Donald Trump with a man who has who-knows-how-many nondisclosure agreements and the drip, drip, drip of stories of women saying they have been harassed and discriminated against,” she said.Before Mr. Bloomberg could even try to defend himself, Mr. Biden, who has seen the former New York mayor claim some of his support, gladly stepped in. “All the mayor has to say is, You are released from the N.D.A., period,” Mr. Biden said, his voice rising.ImageCredit...Calla Kessler/The New York TimesIn what became, for both of them, their most energetic debate in months, Mr. Biden and Ms. Warren teamed up to confront Mr. Bloomberg about his record on policing, challenging his expressions of contrition about his years of strong support for invasive searches that disproportionately targeted black and Hispanic men. The unlikely duo wielded the same combination of indignation and inquisition that framed their argument about sexual harassment.“It’s not whether he apologized or not, it’s the policy,” Mr. Biden said, accusing Mr. Bloomberg of discounting concerns raised by the Obama administration.As in most of the tough exchanges of the night, Mr. Bloomberg defended himself only up to a point: He explained that he was focused on protecting New Yorkers’ “right to live,” and in the process embraced a policing strategy he later came to regret. Looking back on his time as mayor, Mr. Bloomberg said, “the one thing I’m really worried about, embarrassed about, was how it turned out with stop and frisk.”Ms. Warren jumped in to dissect that answer. “This isn’t about how it turned out,” she said. “This is about what it was designed to do, to begin with. It targeted communities of color.”Mr. Bloomberg has risen in the polls thanks to spending more than $400 million in advertising, nearly all of it on next month’s Super Tuesday contests, but he had largely avoided engaging with voters, let alone his Democratic rivals. His decision to participate in the debate before those March 3 states was a gamble — and one his own campaign all but conceded they didn’t win.They acknowledged his lackluster performance, at least in the first hour of the two-hour forum, even as they boasted about how all of the attacks on him demonstrated the threat he poses. “It took him just 45 minutes in his first debate in 10 years to get his legs on the stage,” Kevin Sheekey, Mr. Bloomberg’s campaign manager, said in a statement after the debate.If Mr. Sanders appeared relatively unbruised Wednesday night, it was not clear that he did anything to put to rest the persistent reservations in the party about his prospects in a contest against Mr. Trump. He dismissed a moderator’s question about polling that found Americans deeply wary of socialism as a political label, noting that the same polling found him leading Mr. Trump in a general election.Mr. Buttigieg and Mr. Bloomberg picked away at Mr. Sanders, with Mr. Bloomberg declaring that he would be a surefire loser in the general election and Mr. Buttigieg warning that it would be dangerous to nominate someone who “wants to burn the house down.”After intraparty politesse prevailed in the first eight debates, when the harshest remarks onstage were usually reserved for Mr. Trump, the evident contempt some of these six candidates have for one another rang out like a jackpot in a slot machine on Wednesday. At no time was that more clear than when Ms. Klobuchar, who split the support of many moderate voters in New Hampshire with Mr. Buttigieg, was reminded by the former South Bend mayor that in a recent interview she had been unable to name the president of Mexico.“You’re staking your candidacy on Washington experience,” Mr. Buttigieg said, pointing out that all of the committees she serves on involve Mexico.“Are you trying to say I’m dumb — are you mocking me, Pete?” Ms. Klobuchar shot back, clearly stung. She then noted she had won all of her campaigns, while he had lost his sole statewide bid “by over 20 points.”Later, Ms. Klobuchar said Mr. Buttigieg had simply “memorized a bunch of talking points” and had never been “in the arena.”Both flashed sharp irritation, as Mr. Buttigieg criticized Ms. Klobuchar’s support for certain Trump appointees and Ms. Klobuchar described his political accomplishments as minimal.“You don’t have to be in Washington to matter,” Mr. Buttigieg said, pointing to his tenure in the struggling city he sought to revive.At one point, Ms. Klobuchar answered Mr. Buttigieg with blunt sarcasm: “I wish everyone was as perfect as you, Pete,” she said.ImageCredit...Erin Schaff/The New York TimesYet the debate underscored the challenge facing candidates like Mr. Buttigieg and Ms. Klobuchar, who are hoping to ride a sense of momentum from Iowa and New Hampshire into stronger finishes elsewhere. But the two rivals spent much of the evening arguing with each other, and both were repeatedly upstaged by clashes involving the candidates better known at the national level.Both were at risk of emerging from the debate weaker than they entered it, and at the end of the evening they had not clearly strengthened their claims to leadership of moderate forces in the Democratic coalition.Just as contentious were the exchanges between Mr. Bloomberg, the proud billionaire, and Mr. Sanders, the democratic socialist who has said billionaires should not exist. Mr. Sanders, who had a heart attack in the fall, answered a question about his personal health records by noting that Mr. Bloomberg has “two stents as well,” prompting Mr. Bloomberg to say that his had been inserted two decades ago.And after Mr. Bloomberg said he made no apologies for his wealth because he had worked hard for his money, Mr. Sanders interjected: “Maybe your workers played some role in that as well.”Mr. Bloomberg eventually confronted Mr. Sanders, saying it was “ridiculous” to suggest the country would “throw out capitalism.”Turning even more personal, Mr. Bloomberg said, “What a wonderful country we have — the best known socialist in the country happens to be a millionaire with three houses.”After listing his residences, Mr. Sanders turned back to Mr. Bloomberg and asked: “Which tax haven do you call home?”The sparring was hardly unanticipated. The rivalry between Mr. Sanders and Mr. Bloomberg has turned harshly personal this week, as their campaigns escalated a feud that both see as serving their political interests. On the morning of the debate, aides to Mr. Bloomberg and Mr. Sanders were trading slashing criticism about the health of the two men, who are both 78 years old, and transparency about their medical histories.And in the days leading up to the debate, a number of the candidates denounced the personal attacks that Sanders supporters aimed at the female leaders of the influential union of Las Vegas’s casino employees, the culinary workers’ union, criticism that arose again at Wednesday’s debate.ImageCredit...Calla Kessler/The New York TimesIf the other contenders are not able to slow Mr. Sanders in Nevada, he may gain enough momentum going into the Super Tuesday contests on March 3, when 15 states and territories will vote, to eventually claim the nomination. But if he falters here, it could throw the race open and create an opportunity for one or more of his rivals to assert themselves.Mr. Sanders’s prominence in the race even drew a broadside from Ms. Warren, who has largely avoided tangling with him since entering the race.“His campaign relentlessly attacks everyone,” she said, alluding to his supporters’ scorn for those who do not support “Medicare for all.” And then Ms. Warren made a reference to recent comments by Representative Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez of New York, who said that Mr. Sanders might not be able to initially pass single-payer insurance. “His own advisers say, ‘Eh, probably won’t happen, anyways,’” she said.Mr. Sanders, though, did not return fire. And at the end of the evening, it was clear he had a larger goal in mind: claiming the Democratic nomination, even if he has accrued a plurality, but not a majority of delegates, by the end of the primary season.“I think that the will of the people should prevail, yes,” he said. “The person who has the most votes should become the nominee.”