The night before Michigan's presidential primary, former Vice President Joe Biden came to Detroit on Monday, looking for votes, volunteers and campaign cash."Michigan, I’m counting on you in a big way," he told the crowd of about 1,000 people at Renaissance High School. "This is a state we have to win in November. I spent a lot of time in this state," adding he worked side-by-side with Detroit Mayor Mike Duggan when the city was going through bankruptcy. "I’ve always believed in Detroit, like I’ve always believed in Michigan."Biden brought two of his former rivals for the Democratic presidential nomination — U.S. Sens. Kamala Harris of California and Cory Booker of New Jersey — to the rally in Detroit, a city where 82% of the residents are African Americans. It was a nod to the overwhelming support Biden has gotten from the black community, especially in South Carolina on Feb. 29, where a landslide victory helped revive his campaign and helped him win 10 of the 14 states voting on Super Tuesday."We got knocked back four years ago. But we have to rise on up as a nation. We don’t shut up. We don’t give up. We stand up. We rise up," Booker said. "And there is one man who is ready to go to the center of the arena, who has the best shot to beat Donald Trump, the best one to heal the soul of America and bring dignity back to the office. And that person is one person, Joe Biden."Not everyone in the crowd was a Biden fan. About a dozen protesters carrying Green New Deal signs disrupted the rally, chanting, "Joe has to to go." They were escorted out of the gymnasium."The Bernie Bros are here," Biden said, telling security to let the protesters leave peacefully. "This isn't a Trump rally."And Lt. Gov. Garlin Gilchrist, who is supporting Biden, got some boos from the crowd when he took a swipe at Hillary Clinton's campaign in 2016. "In 2016, I voted for Bernie Sanders," Gilchrist said. "The difference was that nobody with the record, results and relationships of Joe Biden was on the ballot then."But on Tuesday, he said he'll vote for Biden.Biden said that the election is a pivotal moment in the nation's history, a time when voters must choose between decency and the chaos of the Trump administration."This election isn’t about a battle for the soul of the Democratic Party, it’s a battle for the soul of America," he said. "Winning means uniting the country." He also reminded the crowd of the $2.5 billion investment the Obama administration made to help restore the Great Lakes."We got really incredible results," he said. "We were actually delivering for Michigan."Before the rally, Biden attended a $1,000-per-person fundraiser at the Detroit Athletic Club, hosted by some of Michigan's biggest political names: former Gov. Jim Blanchard, Detroit Mayor Mike Duggan and Detroit businessman Dennis Archer Jr.More:20 questions you might have about Michigan's primary electionMore:Gretchen Whitmer, Mike Duggan hit campaign trail for Joe BidenWhile U.S. Sen. Bernie Sanders drew thousands to rallies in Detroit, Grand Rapids and Ann Arbor over the weekend, two of Biden's events on Monday were tiny in comparison. He talked with a small group of health officials and the media in Grand Rapids. The campaign hastily added a stop in Flint on Monday and only gave the public and media a couple hours of notice, resulting in a small group of Flint residents showing up for the appearance at a community center.But by the time the rally began at Renaissance High School in Detroit, a line of supporters snaked around the block and the gym was at capacity. In a nod to fears of coronavirus, each person got a squirt of hand sanitizer as they entered the gymnasium."I like that he has experience. I like that he has know-how. And I like that I know Joe and I'm comfortable with him," said Pamela Garrett of Southfield.She said she likes some of the ideas coming from U.S. Sen. Bernie Sanders, such as Medicare For All, but not the free college education for everyone."He's overreaching," she said. "On the school issue, I have a problem because how are you going to pay for that plan?"Pat and Fred Wright of Livonia had a different motivation."I like how he's different than the one we got in there now," Pat Wright said.Fred Wright said he started out as a supporter of former New York Mayor Mike Bloomberg."I figured if he could run a major corporation, he could run the country," he said, adding that his main criteria was voting for someone who could beat President Donald Trump. "Bingo." Biden's rally at Renaissance High School was the biggest event of the day. It featured a raucous crowd that cheered throughout, a marching band, and signs emblazoned with "Joementum" and "Michiganders love Biden!"Even with Biden's late appearance in the state and his minimal organization on the ground, his numbers soared in several polls released on Monday. In a poll of 400 Michigan voters done by the Lansing polling firm EPIC/MRA last week for the Free Press, Biden had opened up a 24-point lead over Sanders, gaining a 51%-27% margin in the final days before Tuesday's presidential primary election.But Sanders was in the same position in 2016, down by 26 points to rival Hillary Clinton before the primary and he ended up pulling out a narrow victory.In Grand Rapids, Biden, speaking at the Cherry Health Heart of the City Community Health Center to a small audience of media and Cherry Health officials, said that the Affordable Care Act, or Obamacare, led to the expansion of community health centers across the country. Biden said that he hopes to build on that in the White House.“The expansion of community health centers was one of Obamacare’s crowning achievements,” he said. “I was proud, very proud to work with President Obama to get Obamacare done in the first place. I’m going to stand firm against anyone who tries to tear down the progress and start all over again.”He also noted that Sanders, whom he described as a "good man," would have a difficult time getting such sweeping health care reform through Congress.“His Medicare for All push would be a long and expensive slog, if we can get it done at all," he said. "And the patients of Cherry Health, they can’t afford to wait for a resolution, they’re looking for results for their families and for themselves today, immediately, not tomorrow.”Biden was heading to Columbus, Ohio, on Tuesday. But his wife, Dr. Jill Biden, is scheduled to wrap up the campaign in Michigan with visits to Lansing and Flint on Tuesday.Holland Sentinel reporter Arpan Lobo contributed to this report.Contact Kathleen Gray: 313-223-4430, kgray99@freepress.com or on Twitter @michpoligal.