Congress and the White House are nearing an economic rescue package; stocks plunged again Thursday despite the Fed offering at least $1.5 trillion worth of short-term loans to banks. Published March 12, 2020Updated March 25, 2020Here’s what you need to know:Economic package will include paid sick leave and free virus testing, aides said.Sophie Grégoire Trudeau, wife of Canadian prime minister, has the virus.Latter-day Saints suspend all gatherings worldwide, including worship.Stocks plunge despite the Fed’s $1.5 trillion offer to banks.The suspension of the N.B.A. will last at least 30 days.The Biden and Sanders campaigns close offices and tell staff to work from home.Italian doctors confront unthinkable choices about life and death.VideotranscripttranscriptFear, Humor, Defiance: How the World Is Reacting to CoronavirusThe coronavirus has touched a diverse collection of countries and cultures, but a number of shared experiences have emerged — from grieving the dead to writing songs.[Bagpipe music] There are moments that seem bizarre, moments of fear … … preparation and moments of emptiness. These are scenes from the world living with coronavirus. It has spread across cultures, languages and even out to sea. And despite these global differences, a number of shared experiences have emerged. There is grief over the dead. In Iran, hospital staff mourn a doctor’s death from the virus. In China, a quarantined building collapses, and a firefighter breaks down after pulling bodies from the rubble. In Italy, a man mourns the death of his sister. To try and save lives, authorities take precautions. They disinfect public areas and screen populations. “This is just crazy. Around the world, people are afraid and on edge. “Unbelievable.” In Northern Ireland, routine construction work at an Apple Store is mistaken for virus-related activity. In Japan, tempers flare when a man sneezes on a train. One Italian takes the fear and adds humor. This is a circle to keep people at a safe distance. In fact, lots of people use humor to cope with the uncertainty or the stigma of being sick. In Australia, a run on toilet paper leads to lessons in self-defense. “He’s going to show you how to deal with people stealing your toilet paper.” There is also defiance, a conviction that life must go on despite the virus. Across rooftops in China, quarantined neighbors socialize. From a rooftop in Italy, a theater group performs poetry for an area where movement is restricted. On a quarantined cruise ship, there’s songwriting to pass the time. In an apartment in China, too. But perhaps some of the most striking moments from the pandemic are those where little happens: the empty streets. “Unbelievable. No traffic.” The quiet airports. The places of worship without worshippers. Stores without goods. This is how it is across the globe as we prepare, grieve and wait for the next chapter of the coronavirus.The coronavirus has touched a diverse collection of countries and cultures, but a number of shared experiences have emerged — from grieving the dead to writing songs.CreditCredit...Carlos Lemos/EPA, via ShutterstockEconomic package will include paid sick leave and free virus testing, aides said.Congress on Thursday neared a deal with the White House on a sweeping economic rescue package to respond to the coronavirus pandemic. After a day of intense negotiations between Speaker Nancy Pelosi and Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin, Ms. Pelosi told reporters that “we’ve resolved most of our differences” and that the House would vote on Friday on the measure, “one way or another.” It would then go to the Senate, which called off a recess that had been scheduled for next week. The legislation, Democratic aides said, will include enhanced unemployment benefits, free virus testing and aid for food assistance programs. The package also ensures 14 days of paid sick leave, as well as tax credits to help small- and medium-size businesses fulfill that mandate. Language was still being drafted for provisions related to family and medical leave, according to a Democratic aide, as aides worked through the night to prepare the bill.The fast-moving measure reflects a sense of urgency in Washington to enact a fiscal stimulus in the face of a pandemic that has wreaked havoc on the financial markets, which have proven impervious to other interventions.The negotiations hit snags as Republicans balked at the sweeping proposal to provide paid sick leave, something Senate Republicans had already blocked when Democrats sought earlier in the week to bring up a separate bill. Mr. Mnuchin, in a frantic attempt to keep talks on track, spoke by phone at least seven times with Ms. Pelosi, negotiating additional changes to the House legislation so it could have a chance of winning the support of Mr. Trump and Senate Republicans.Ian Shepherdson, the chief economist at Pantheon Macroeconomics, warned that even a large stimulus package might not stop the fall in markets and that the worst may still lie ahead.“What stops the fear is evidence that the rate of increase of infections is slowing — believable evidence,” he said. “Everywhere you would look for reassurance, for leadership, for policy action, for reliable information — all are absent.”Sophie Grégoire Trudeau, wife of Canadian prime minister, has the virus.ImageCredit...Sebastien St-Jean/Agence France-Presse — Getty ImagesSophie Grégoire Trudeau, the wife of Prime Minister Justin Trudeau of Canada, has tested positive for the coronavirus, the prime minister’s office said in a statement on Thursday night.“She is feeling well, is taking all the recommended precautions and her symptoms remain mild,” the statement said.Earlier in the day, Mr. Trudeau announced that he, Ms. Grégoire Trudeau and their three children had voluntarily isolated themselves at the prime minister’s residence in Ottawa as they awaited the test result. Mr. Trudeau continues to perform most of his official duties, although his meetings have become conference calls and he was absent from the House of Commons. He spoke with several world leaders during the day, including President Trump. On the advice of physicians, Mr. Trudeau will continue to work from home for the next 14 days, the statement said, although he shows no symptoms and physicians are not testing him for the virus.Earlier in the day the government said that Ms. Grégoire Trudeau felt ill after returning from a trip to Britain. Doctors decided to test for the coronavirus on Wednesday after she developed a mild fever, which has since passed. Mr. Trudeau will make a speech to Canadians about the coronavirus pandemic on Friday following a conference call with the country’s provincial leadersLatter-day Saints suspend all gatherings worldwide, including worship.ImageCredit...Rick Bowmer/Associated PressThe Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints announced on Thursday that it was suspending all public gatherings around the world. The church is the first major religious tradition to issue such a global edict.The measure means that the church’s more than 16 million members will not meet for worship services or other activities until further notice. Local leaders are determining how to provide the sacrament rituals to members at least once a month.Church leaders urged members to use technology to conduct necessary meetings remotely, and promised further guidance. “We encourage members in their ministering efforts to care for one another,” the church’s top leaders wrote in a statement to members. “We bear our witness of the Lord’s love during this time of uncertainty.”The church previously suspended Sunday services for three months during the worldwide flu pandemic of 1918, said Matthew Grow, managing director of the church’s history department.Also on Thursday, the Roman Catholic Archdiocese of Washington suspended all public Mass until further notice, and the Episcopal Diocese of Maryland said it would not hold services for almost two weeks.Stocks plunge despite the Fed’s $1.5 trillion offer to banks.ImageCredit...Brendan Mcdermid/ReutersStocks plunged in the United States on Thursday, after President Trump’s latest effort to address the coronavirus outbreak — a 30-day travel ban on people from most European countries — disappointed investors who have been looking for Washington to take steps to bolster the economy.Trading was turbulent, with a brief rebound after the Federal Reserve offered at least $1.5 trillion worth of loans to banks to help keep the financial markets working smoothly. But the downdraft gathered pace again by midafternoon.The S&P 500 fell about 9.5 percent, its biggest daily drop since the crash in 1987 that came to be known as Black Monday. Stocks in the United States are now firmly in a bear market, meaning they have fallen at least 20 percent from the most recent peak.The travel ban hit shares in Europe particularly hard, with major stock indexes there down more than 10 percent. It also battered airline stocks. And with oil prices falling, energy companies were among the day’s biggest losers.The suspension of the N.B.A. will last at least 30 days.Adam Silver, the N.B.A. commissioner, said on Thursday that the league’s suspension of games because of the coronavirus would probably last “at least 30 days.” Mr. Silver, who was being interviewed on TNT’s “Inside the N.B.A.,” said it was also possible that the rest of the season would be canceled.The N.B.A. announced on Wednesday that the season would be suspended after Rudy Gobert, a center for the Utah Jazz, tested positive for the coronavirus. Earlier in the week, Mr. Gobert had made light of concerns about the virus, which Mr. Silver referred to as a “huge mistake.” Mr. Gobert has since apologized on social media.Charles Barkley, one of the hosts of “Inside the N.B.A.,” did not appear in the studio, joining instead by phone. He said he was self-quarantining for 48 hours after not feeling well after a flight from New York to Atlanta. He said he had been tested for the coronavirus but had not received the results. “I‘m just kind of in limbo right now,” Mr. Barkley said.In England, the Premier League said it would go ahead with its scheduled slate of soccer matches this weekend, bucking a global trend that on Thursday saw leagues and competitions around the world cancel games, sometimes for weeks.The National Collegiate Athletic Association called off the men’s and women’s Division 1 basketball tournaments, among the most-watched annual sports events. Major League Baseball halted spring training and postponed the start of the season by at least two weeks. And the N.H.L. paused its season with the Stanley Cup playoffs scheduled to begin in about a month.Listen to ‘The Daily’: Learning to Live With the CoronavirusOur science reporter answers your questions about how protect yourself and your loved ones from the pandemic.transcripttranscriptListen to ‘The Daily’: Learning to Live With the CoronavirusHosted by Michael Barbaro, produced by Clare Toeniskoetter and Michael Simon Johnson, and edited by Wendy DorrOur science reporter answers your questions about how protect yourself and your loved ones from the pandemic.clare toeniskoetterTest test, test. OK. Just got to Donald’s.Is it OK to lock my bike here?donald g. mcneil jr.Yeah, sure. You want to bring it inside?clare toeniskoetterIf you don’t think it’s exposed.donald g. mcneil jr.OK. Hello.clare toeniskoetterHi.donald g. mcneil jr.There.clare toeniskoetterWe just, rather than shaking hands, bumped elbows.donald g. mcneil jr.Yes, the W.H.O. elbow bump. You want to sit down?clare toeniskoetterShould I wash my hands?donald g. mcneil jr.Yeah. You probably should, as much for your protection as for mine. It depends on what you put your hands on.clare toeniskoetterI wanted to ask you. We heard you, yesterday, sanitizing the studio. What do you do when you come home?donald g. mcneil jr.I wash my hands. I know the inside of my house is clean, because the only people in here are my girlfriend and myself, and we’re both still healthy. But people who live upstairs — and this is a two-apartment building — we have agreed that we will tell each other if any of us has a fever or a cough, and we keep some alcohol wipes in the front hall to wipe down the doorknob, light switch, and other surfaces we might both touch, just to make sure that there’s no possibility of us passing it back and forth to each other. I know it sounds kooky, but this is actually the way the disease gets transmitted. You don’t have to be a crazy germaphobe. Or actually, at a time like this, it helps to be a crazy germaphobe just by instinct. And here. I’ll wash my hands in front of you so that you know that my hands are clean. But the danger with somebody else is, of course, that they’re coughing. But I’m not. I’m fine.clare toeniskoetterI’ve never been in someone’s home in these circumstances.[music]michael barbaroFrom The New York Times, I’m Michael Barbaro. This is “The Daily.”Today: Now that the coronavirus has gone from an epidemic to a pandemic, and both infections and deaths from the disease are surging across the world and the United States, we return to Times science reporter, Donald G. McNeil Jr., who has covered the story from the start, to understand how to navigate this new reality.It’s Friday, March 13.Hey, Donald.donald g. mcneil jr.Hey. How are you?michael barbaroGood. Welcome back, and thank you for letting us into your home. I know we’ve been hearing a lot from you lately, so let us know if we’re beginning to exhaust your generosity.donald g. mcneil jr.OK. So far, so good.michael barbaroSo far. Key word. Donald, when we first started talking to you about the coronavirus about two weeks ago, you gave us an overview of what it was, where it was headed. Since then, a lot has changed. Given the evolution of the situation, we have questions related to this new phase of the epidemic, now that it’s very much in our lives. I’m working from home. You’re working from home. So let’s start with questions about precautions for people who don’t have the virus — which, presumably, is the vast majority of us at the moment — and how we can protect ourselves from getting the virus. What kind of activities should be avoided right now?donald g. mcneil jr.You have to be aware not only of people around you who are coughing, but you also have to be aware that every — basically every hard surface you touch might potentially have virus on it, unless you know it’s been cleaned since the last person that you don’t know was there might have been on it.michael barbaroLet me tick through a couple of what we imagine, from conversations with everybody on “The Daily” team at The Times, to be the kinds of scenarios I think people want to better understand how to approach. A bit of a lightning round here. Is it dangerous, at this moment, to keep going to work?donald g. mcneil jr.Look, some people are going to have to go to work. Doctors have to go to work. But it’s not so much the danger. The reason the government’s asking people not to go to work is because it creates what they call social distancing. The less interactions there are between people, the less exchange of virus there is. If you slow down the virus, you change what is sometimes called R-naught. And if you get people to be more distant from each other, the virus is transmitted less.michael barbaroCan you translate that phrase, R-naught?donald g. mcneil jr.Yeah. It’s called the reproductive number of the virus. It’s, “If I’m sick, how many people am I going to infect?” You never know the real R-naught, or the real fatality rate, or anything about a disease, until it’s completely gone through the world. So we’re never going to know the real answers to these things for at least a year or two, because they’re going to be different in Africa than they are in New York. They’re going to be different anywhere. But if you create more distance between people so that I infect, hopefully, no people, you’ve substantially slowed my part of transmitting the virus. And if you do that across the entire population, you really slow down the movement of that virus in the population. When a lot of people are infected, and a lot of people have pneumonia, a lot of people all need to get to the hospital at the same time. A lot of those people need to get on oxygen or on ventilators, and eventually you run out of ventilators. Then you’re making the triage decisions that they’re now making in northern Italy, which is to say, OK, this is Donald McNeil, 66 years old. I’ve got a choice between saving him or a 25-year-old mother of two. Goodbye, Mr. McNeil. Sorry there isn’t any time for your family to say goodbye to you, because we can’t have visitors, but that’s it. See you later.michael barbaroSheesh.donald g. mcneil jr.Which is the right thing to do. That’s the right decision for a doctor to make. But those are really tough decisions for doctors.michael barbaroLet me return to our lightning round that has not yet turned into a lightning round.donald g. mcneil jr.Sorry.michael barbaroBased on some of what you just said, I’m intuiting where this may be headed, but — take the bus or the subway at this moment. Is that wise?donald g. mcneil jr.I don’t think it’s terribly wise. I did it yesterday to get home. I ride the subway standing up with my face close to the vent. I have one glove on my hand, one gardening glove, and I use that if I have to hold onto a rail. The other hand, I make sure, never touches a surface, and I use that for my phone. Mostly, I keep it in my pocket. And I won’t get into a crowded car. I’ll let the train go by.michael barbaroBut if you don’t have to take the subway.donald g. mcneil jr.If you don’t have to take the subway, don’t.michael barbaroStaying on this theme — lots of people are curious about plane travel.donald g. mcneil jr.I would avoid plane travel if I could help it. I have friends who were about to fly to Kentucky to visit their son, and I said, you know what? Why don’t you drive? You know where all the surfaces inside your car have been. You don’t know where all the surfaces inside that plane or that airport have been. I know it’s going to be 11 hours instead of two hours, but I’d say, do it. And that’s what they’re doing.michael barbaroHow about trips to familiar retail establishments — a grocery store, a restaurant?donald g. mcneil jr.Well, you have to have food, so go to the grocery store. Be super careful about the handle of the cart, and remember that every box you touch has been placed on that shelf by somebody who might have coughed into their hand. Now, restaurants — I did eat in a restaurant a couple of nights ago. We looked for one that was, really, pretty empty, and we sat at the bar which had just been wiped down. But as this pandemic progresses, I’ll worry more, and I’ll probably avoid going into restaurants.michael barbaroThe gym.donald g. mcneil jr.Yeah, the gym. I go to a gym. I play squash, which means all I have to touch in common with the other player is the ball, and I know my partner. I would be real reluctant to start grabbing a bunch of weights, not knowing who else had touched them, grabbing a bunch of handles on machines, not knowing who had touched them. I would be reluctant to play basketball with a dozen other guys, because you can’t have 10 guys handling the same ball. If one of them is spewing virus, a virus is going to get on the ball, and then everybody’s got it on their hands.michael barbaroHow about movies, concerts — things that might be open-air, but where people are sitting quite close to each other?donald g. mcneil jr.Open-air is safer than enclosed, but even in open-air venues, if you’re sitting on a seat, the handles of the seat might have virus on them. The railings when you walk down to your seat might have virus on them. The ticket taker, as he takes your ticket and hands it back to you — I know it’s paranoid-sounding, but these are all the ways that virus can be transmitted in large gatherings. It’s not just the coughing. It’s the many surfaces that get touched.michael barbaroIn general, I’m hearing you say that going out and interacting with other people poses risks. So I wonder if you can help us understand the calculations behind your thinking in these particular categories. Does it have to do with the lifespan of the virus? Does it have to do with recommendations around social distancing? What is the underlying logic?donald g. mcneil jr.Yes. They’re related to all these things. But I think people get way too obsessive about numbers, about exactly how many hours or days does the virus live on a surface? Exactly how many feet do you have to stand away from somebody else? I mean, you can’t run around through life with a tape measure, trying to figure out, is 3 feet safe enough? Is 6 feet safe enough? But stay away from people who are coughing. Stay away from people who look feverish. And if you have to communicate with somebody, keep your distance. That’s what I’d say. Just generally keep your distance.michael barbaroYou’ve talked about social distancing. How do you socially distance yourself from your family, from your children, from your partner, your spouse, your boyfriend, your girlfriend? Does that really work?donald g. mcneil jr.You can’t. My girlfriend and I still kiss each other. We just trust each other enough to believe we’re not infected. It’s impossible to socially distance yourself from your children. They’re going to come up and hug you. That’s why the whole idea of home quarantine — home isolation, rather — is virtually impossible.michael barbaroDonald, there’s a strong sense that very young people and people in their teens, 20s, early 30s, are at a much lower risk level for the coronavirus. And I think that’s been borne out. Correct me if I’m wrong. So do all the recommendations that we keep hearing apply as stringently to the young?donald g. mcneil jr.Yes, unless you’re totally selfish.michael barbaroWhat you mean?donald g. mcneil jr.Do you have a parent? Do you have a grandparent? Do you want to be the vector that carries that disease to them? Do you know anybody and love anybody who’s older and might be frail? You don’t want your last memory of that person —being that you gave them the virus that killed them. You’ll kick yourself for the rest of your life if you did that. People who were hospitalized in China started at age 30 and went up to 70s and 80s. Yes, on average, the outcomes are better. But if you want something to worry about, you might be the person who doesn’t have a good outcome. You’re spreading a disease to your friends, your social circle. That’s something you ought to feel guilty about. It’s not something you ought to feel indifferent about. People have to take this seriously.michael barbaroWe’ll be right back.We’ve been talking about precautions for people who don’t have the virus and want to keep it that way. I want to turn, now, to what happens if you think you might have the virus. Based on your reporting, and based on the publicly available information, what are the first signs of illness that have been reported and that people, therefore, could be looking out for?donald g. mcneil jr.What the Chinese found in the large study of the first 45,000 cases is that it’s not like a cold. Fever is the number-one sign. High fever, a dry cough, and then, after that, fatigue. Runny nose was only 4% of cases, and those people might have had flu or a cold at the same time. But there’s something I wanted to say that was important. I described, in our first interview, that 80% of all cases were mild, and the other 20% were either severe or critical. And that stuck in too many people’s minds as if, oh, 80% of cases are practically nothing. You don’t even have it. Maybe it’s asymptomatic. No. That’s wrong. The Chinese study that was based on — everything was either mild, severe, or critical. Mild included everything from “barely any symptoms” to pneumonia, but pneumonia not needing hospitalization or oxygen. Once you stepped over into needing oxygen, then you were severe. Once you were in organ failure, you were critical. So if people think this is a mild disease, get over that idea. I’m sorry if I contributed to the spread of that idea. I should have been much more careful in describing the whole range of symptoms that came under the term “mild.”michael barbaroRight. In other words, “mild” doesn’t necessarily mean mild.donald g. mcneil jr.Nothing like what we mean by a mild cold.michael barbaroWhen is it recommended that, no matter how mild or severe the symptoms are, a person be tested? Is there a threshold?donald g. mcneil jr.I don’t know if the authorities have set a threshold yet. I know what happens in pandemics is that, ultimately, you have to assume that a lot of people have the disease. And that really when you reach the point where almost everybody has it, you end up stopping even bothering to test them. You ultimately are going to assume that everybody has it, because it’s the most popular virus going around. If you have no trouble breathing, if you have got a fever that you can handle at home, then stay home and take care of it. Although that’s not the way the Chinese handled it. The Chinese said, if you think you have symptoms — and I hope we get to this point. The Chinese said, if you think you have symptoms, if you think you’re getting sick, get directed to a fever clinic, where somebody who is in protective gear can see you, and they will see you and sort out whether you have bacterial pneumonia, or flu, or whether you have coronavirus. And if you have coronavirus, you’re going to go into isolation with a lot of other people who have coronavirus. Even if you have a very mild case, you’re going to go in with all the other mild cases, because they know cases can crash. It’s a pretty common phenomenon that people are going along OK with some breathing difficulty, and then in the second week, they crash. Their oxygen saturation drops, and they need oxygen. And in those cases, in the isolation centers in China, when you might be in a gymnasium with 1,000 other people, when you crashed, they recognized it right there. There was no wait, and they would move you to a hospital.michael barbaroThis is a bit of an ethics question, but let’s say you get into a cab, and you’re on your way to get tested for the coronavirus, or you hitch a ride with a friend. Should it be disclosed that you think you might have the virus? Should basically anyone you come in contact with be aware of your status?donald g. mcneil jr.Yes. You’re carrying a potentially lethal disease, so you’ve got to warn other people. There’s no ethical question about this. Unfortunately, this has been the story of I don’t know how many pandemics. How many people have lied about having a sexually transmitted disease, especially in the five minutes right before they thought they were going to get lucky, and if they disclosed what they had, they were going to ruin the moment? Unfortunately, that’s how a whole lot of sexually transmitted diseases, including H.I.V., get passed on. It takes a lot of courage to be that ethical, and I hope during this epidemic, people will.michael barbaroAnd the test itself, it remains somewhat scarce, but to the degree you know it, can you describe the test? Is it a saliva swab?donald g. mcneil jr.The point is to get a sample of where the virus is, so there are different ways of getting that swab. Typically, for a while, they were doing nasopharyngeal swabs, which is, basically, pushing a Q-tip so far up your nose that it feels like it’s going into your brain. But I’ve seen swabs that were just taken from the back of the throat. And I know that there are some times, when people are coughing hard, they try to get them to cough up sputum so they can test that. You want to get a sample that’s got virus from where the cells are infected. Originally, it attaches deep in the lungs, so you’re trying to get a sample from there. But once it moves up into your nose and throat, maybe you can get a sample from there. So it’s very dangerous for the person who’s trying to get the Q-tip in, or the sputum sample out, to be standing right in front of them as they do that. They have to be really protected in order to do that safely.michael barbaroHow long do the results generally seem to be taking for these tests?donald g. mcneil jr.I was told that, in China, when they had the on-the-spot labs and the fever clinics, they could give you an answer in as little as four hours, but that’s ideal. There were others of seven hours. Other times, they had to send it off someplace overnight. Until recently, we’ve been having to send every sample to Atlanta. So that’s several days.michael barbaroRight. To the C.D.C.donald g. mcneil jr.Yes, to the C.D.C.michael barbaroWhich is the least efficient version of this, it would seem.donald g. mcneil jr.It’s the least efficient version, but for a while, it was the only accurate version, and a positive wasn’t considered a positive until the C.D.C. had confirmed it. We’ve got to solve this testing problem. We’ve got to have it so that tests are literally right there, because you’ve got to diagnose people and then isolate them so they don’t go home and give the virus to the family, and they don’t go back to work and give the virus to their coworkers.michael barbaroAnd we are not at that phase just yet, are we?donald g. mcneil jr.Right now, we’re not even talking about that phase. That’s how they did it in China. Right now, we’re still talking about home isolation, and the W.H.O., the Chinese, and the South Koreans would say, that doesn’t work. That’s too dangerous. There’s no way you can isolate at home without infecting your family.michael barbaroThe final phase of questions, Donald, are, what happens when a person has been diagnosed with the virus? You’ve told us that there really is no cure for the coronavirus. It’s going to run its course. Are there useful over-the-counter medicines that would help somebody get through this virus?donald g. mcneil jr.This is kind of crazy, because I don’t think it’s safe to think of it as something you can happily stay home with and treat like, oh, I’ve got the flu. You’ve got to be aware that there is the possibility of crashing. You’ve got to have a number you can call. The state should be aware that you’re a patient, that you’re in home quarantine, and there should be somebody checking in on you each day, or you should be checking in with somebody so that they say, how high is your fever? How fast are you breathing?michael barbaroHow long can a person expect to be sick, once diagnosed?donald g. mcneil jr.Mild cases typically resolved themselves in two weeks. People who were on ventilators and in severe situations were usually three to six weeks.michael barbaroThat’s a long time.donald g. mcneil jr.Yeah. That’s a long time. It’s a long time for one of your ventilators to be in use. Even the severe and the critical cases — most of the time, they ended in good outcomes. But for some people, death took several weeks, too. People didn’t just immediately crash and die. It would be a somewhat slow process.michael barbaroDonald, once you have this virus, does it confer immunity on getting the coronavirus again in the next couple weeks, next couple of years, forever?donald g. mcneil jr.Nobody knows about forever. Virtually all doctors assume that having recovered from this confers immunity, because that’s the norm. When you recover from a disease, you normally have immunity at least for a while.michael barbaroOnce a person recovers from the virus, is there permanent damage? Do we know?donald g. mcneil jr.Some people who have gone into severe pneumonia or A.R.D.S., adult respiratory distress syndrome, yes, will have permanent damage. They’ll live, but they’ll have permanently damaged lungs. That can definitely happen.michael barbaroAnd what do we know about how the virus, long-term, affects people who I think would be, justifiably, quite anxious at this moment — pregnant women?donald g. mcneil jr.The small numbers of women that have been studied in China who were pregnant during this relatively short time period — there was a study that came out just a couple of days ago. Nine women all delivered healthy babies. Something like six of the women were delivered by cesarean, which doctors may have chosen to do just for the extra safety of knowing that the baby wasn’t going to be infected in the birth canal. But some of the babies were born naturally, too, and all the babies were healthy.michael barbaroThat’s reassuring.donald g. mcneil jr.That’s good news it’s a very small sample, but it’s good news from what we know from the small sample. It’s really different from some other diseases.michael barbaroFinally, Donald, we want to tackle a few questions that we’ve observed from friends, family and from the internet that may be in the territory of rumor or half-baked theories, but that are gaining some currency. So basically, a true-or-false section here. First off, are there multiple strains of the coronavirus, and are some more dangerous than others?donald g. mcneil jr.No. There are slightly different variants of the coronavirus — really, variances by a couple of nucleotides. There is no evidence that one is more infectious than the other, or one is more lethal than the other. Not so far, anyway.michael barbaroNext. This is a seasonal virus, and it will more or less be gone in a few months.donald g. mcneil jr.That would be lovely, but we don’t know that. This is a new virus. We’ve never seen it in summertime, so we don’t know how it’s going to behave in summertime. Respiratory viruses like influenza tend to disappear in the summer. We don’t know what this virus is going to do in the summer, so it’s not a good idea to make predictions. That’s just wishful thinking on the part of people who say, oh, it’s all going to disappear in the summertime.michael barbaroAnd the last of these true-of-false questions, Donald. Are the media — we hear this a lot — blowing the scale of this out of proportion, given the relatively small number of infections compared with the overall populations in any given country?donald g. mcneil jr.Look. I ask myself this question every day, because I’m the media in this case. Normally, I get to blame the other jackals of the press for blowing things out of proportion, but this time —michael barbaroNot this time.donald g. mcneil jr.— it’s on my shoulders. I’d like to think there’s nothing to worry about. I never worried about Ebola coming to New York. I never worried much about SARS spreading in New York. I worried, in the beginning, about H1N1 flu in 2009, but then, as the mortality data got clearer, I stopped worrying. I knew we’d mostly get it, but I knew it would be, mostly, not a problem. This one, same as I said two-plus weeks ago, really flips me out. This one reminds me of 1918 — a dangerous virus that transmits easily between people. Yes, 80% of the cases are mild, but as I described, “mild” is a term that the Chinese use describing all the way up to pneumonia. That’s not mild. We don’t know what the fatality rate is. It got as high, in some weeks in Wuhan, as 5%. That was during the chaos period in Wuhan. We don’t know what it is in Italy now, and we won’t know, until it’s all over, what the total fatality rate is going to be. I’d love to be told I was wrong, I was an alarmist, I should eat my hat. But we’ll see. So far, I’ve been right about every scary thing I said about this disease. I’ve been worried, ever since I looked at the numbers, about how fast the epidemic was doubling in China, and how fast people were going to hospitals. I sat down and wrote down on a piece of paper about how fast this could double, and I came into work the next day and said, this is going to go pandemic. Originally, nobody believed me, and I had to call 12 different experts and count which ones believed me and which ones didn’t believe me. It came out, basically, eight to two to two. Eight thought it —[music] — had the potential to go pandemic, two thought it was overblown, and two didn’t want to comment, didn’t want to take a guess.michael barbaroIt sounds like you’re saying, so far, we haven’t blown it out of proportion, and you have been a relatively successful prognosticator of this virus. So that’s why we’re going to keep talking to you about it. I want to tell you how much I appreciate you giving us your time and your wisdom. Thank you.donald g. mcneil jr.Thank you for inviting me.michael barbaroOver the coming weeks, we’ll be answering your questions about the coronavirus and how to navigate the pandemic. You can send us your questions by voicemail at 646-598-6012. Be sure to tell us your name and where you’re calling from.We’ll be right back.[music] Here’s what else you need to know today. Wall Street experienced its worst day since the crash of 1987 as investors responded to President Trump’s plan to severely limit travel between Europe and the United States, and general confidence faded that Western economies will quickly recover from the pandemic. In Washington, the Senate canceled a scheduled week-long recess so it could negotiate a major economic relief package to address the financial fallout.Meanwhile, closures and cancellations cascaded across the country. The N.C.A.A. called off its annual basketball tournaments following a decision by the N.B.A. to suspend its operations. Both the N.H.L. and Major League Soccer said that they, too, would pause their seasons.In New York, all 41 Broadway theaters began shutting down on Thursday night under instructions from the state’s governor and will not reopen until April 12 at the earliest, while New York restaurants and bars have been ordered to operate at 50% capacity.And in California, Disneyland will close its doors until the end of the month, its first closure since the September 11 terror attacks in 2001.“The Daily” is made by Theo Balcomb, Andy Mills, Lisa Tobin, Rachel Quester, Lynsea Garrison, Annie Brown, Clare Toeniskoetter, Paige Cowett, Michael Simon Johnson, Brad Fisher, Larissa Anderson, Wendy Dorr, Chris Wood, Jessica Cheung, Alexandra Leigh Young, Jonathan Wolfe, Lisa Chow, Eric Krupke, Marc Georges, Luke Vander Ploeg, Adizah Eghan, Kelly Prime, Julia Longoria, Sindhu Gnanasambandan, Jazmin Aguilera, M.J. Davis Lin, Austin Mitchell, Sayre Quevedo, Neena Pathak, Dan Powell, Dave Shaw, Sydney Harper, Daniel Guillemette, Hans Buetow, Robert Jimison and Mike Benoist.Our theme music is by Jim Brunberg and Ben Landsverk of Wonderly. Special thanks to Sam Dolnick, Mikayla Bouchard, Stella Tan, Lauren Jackson, Julia Simon, Mahima Chablani and Nora Keller. That’s it for “The Daily.” I’m Michael Barbaro. See you on Monday.The Biden and Sanders campaigns close offices and tell staff to work from home.ImageCredit...Erin Schaff/The New York TimesFormer Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr.’s presidential campaign told staff members to work from home, closed all its offices to the public and said it would begin holding smaller events and virtual fund-raisers, according to an internal campaign memo released Thursday.Mr. Biden’s main rival in the Democratic primary, Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont, took similar precautions. Mr. Sanders’s campaign said that it had asked all staff members to work from home and that it would no longer hold large events or door-to-door canvasses, focusing on digital outreach instead.Mr. Biden — who has a famously tactile campaigning style — acknowledged in a speech on Thursday the need for “radical changes in our personal behaviors” that could affect “deeply ingrained behavior like handshakes and hugs.”The candidates’ shift away from big events is likely to hurt Mr. Sanders, who is trying against lengthening odds to overtake Mr. Biden in the nomination fight. His huge rallies have served as a show of force.Italian doctors confront unthinkable choices about life and death.ImageCredit...Claudio Furlan/LaPresse, via Associated PressEvery day, the medical workers of northern Italy face an awful question: Which patients, whom you would have treated a few weeks ago, do you turn away now, or even allow to die?With more than 15,000 infections diagnosed across the country, and more than 1,000 deaths, Italy is the hardest-hit region in Europe. It has turned into a test of the limits of a modern health care system swamped by an epidemic — and a terrifying glimpse of what other countries may soon face.This week Italy imposed the most draconian measures outside of China — restricting movement and closing most businesses — to slow the spread of the virus. But local officials report instances of overwhelmed doctors and nurses simply leaving some elderly patients untreated; hospitals sending people with pneumonia home; and hospital staffs having to choose who to deny the use of scarce equipment like ventilators. Medical workers are collapsing from exhaustion, and taking ill themselves.“This is a war,” said Massimo Puoti, the head of infectious medicine at Niguarda Hospital in Milan, one of the largest in Lombardy, the province at the heart of the epidemic.New York to ban most gatherings of more than 500 people, including on Broadway.ImageCredit...Jeenah Moon for The New York TimesNew York will ban most gatherings of more than 500 people, including at Broadway shows, and restrict smaller groups, Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo announced on Thursday.The restrictions, intended to slow a growing outbreak in the state, are expected to have a profound impact on the city’s cultural institutions, including theater, a multibillion dollar industry at the heart of New York’s tourist trade. The ban took effect at 5 p.m. Thursday for Broadway theaters and will do the same for other venues Friday at 5 p.m., Mr. Cuomo said. The Broadway League, a trade organization representing producers and theater owners, said the closing would last through April 12.Later in the afternoon, Mayor Bill de Blasio declared a state of emergency and stressed that the city would be dealing with the effects of the coronavirus for the long haul.“Going to this level is not done lightly but it has reached the point where it is necessary,” he said. He cited the potential for major job losses, evictions, business closings and people running short of food. New York State had 328 total cases as of late Thursday; 96 were in New York City and 147 in Westchester County.Are you prepared? How to stock your pantry and other tips.Here are tips for stocking your pantry in ways that are practical and delicious; answers to some common questions about travel, and steps to take when talking to an anxious teen about coronavirus.“This is the time to do it”: Schools shut down in Maryland, Ohio and Washington.ImageCredit...Grant Hindsley for The New York TimesOfficials in Maryland, Ohio and Washington State announced on Thursday that schools in those states would close for several weeks.Ohio’s action was the most sweeping. Gov. Mike DeWine said that all primary and secondary schools would close for three weeks starting on Monday. Ohio has just five known cases of the virus so far, but the governor said the move was meant to get ahead of the spread and help save lives. “This is the time to do it,” he said in a statement on Twitter.Maryland officials ordered all public schools in the state to close from Monday until March 27. And in Washington State, which has the most cases of any state in the nation, Governor Inslee said he had made the “very difficult decision” to close the schools in King, Snohomish and Pierce counties, the heart of the outbreak in the Seattle area, probably through late April. Widespread closures of K-12 schools are a significant shift in American life, upending child care plans and raising questions about meals and care for low-income and homeless students. In New York City, where two public schools were closed on Thursday after a child tested positive, Mayor Bill de Blasio has resisted citywide closings, citing the extreme hardship that would cause for poor students and their working parents.Argentina will halt flights from the U.S. and Europe.President Alberto Fernández of Argentina said on Thursday that the government would suspend flights from the United States and Europe for 30 days in an effort to slow down the spread of the new coronavirus in the South American nation.Mr. Fernández also announced strict quarantine protocols for people who arrive in Argentina after having traveled to places with a significant number of cases, including China, South Korea, Iran, Japan, Europe and the United States.Argentina had 31 confirmed coronavirus cases as of Thursday, including one fatality.It was not immediately clear when the flights would stop. But the measure appeared certain to leave thousands of passengers stranded. Argentina receives more than 20 flights daily from cities in Europe and the United States.Pastors may have exposed thousands in Burkina Faso.ImageCredit...Finbarr O'Reilly for The New York TimesHusband-and-wife pastors from Burkina Faso who traveled to France in February were found to have the coronavirus after they developed symptoms following Sunday services at their 12,000-capacity megachurch in their country’s capital, Ouagadougou. The possible mass exposure comes on a continent that has so far largely escaped the sweep of the virus across the globe. Egypt has the highest number of confirmed cases, with around 60, most of them aboard a Nile cruise ship. South Africa has 15, and there is a scattering of cases elsewhere in Africa, many involving Europeans.Africa’s many megachurches and their vast congregations have been a source of worry for the spread of coronavirus, particularly after a large majority of the more than 7,800 cases in South Korea were traced back to the secretive Shincheonji Church of Jesus.The pastors, Mamoudou Karambiri and Hortense Karambiri, had spent the week of Feb. 17-24 praying and fasting with more than 2,000 fellow evangelicals at an annual Lenten gathering in France, which has one of Europe’s highest caseloads. They then returned to their home church, Bethel Israel Tabernacle, and held a Sunday service on March 1. According to Le Monde, a French newspaper, almost 40 others who attended the Lenten prayer week, held in Mulhouse, France, carried the virus to other parts of France and to Guyana.A top U.S. health official says coronavirus testing is “a failing.” Videotranscripttranscript‘That’s Really Disturbing’: Health Officials Grilled on Coronavirus TestingRep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz pressed top health officials about the current shortcomings of the government’s coronavirus response.“There are countless more examples of problems with people getting access to tests all across the country, including in my home state of Florida. We need to have someone in charge of making sure that as many people as possible across this country have access to getting tested as soon as possible. Who is that person? Is it you? Is it the vice president? Can you give us the name of who can guarantee that anyone, but especially health care workers, who need to be tested can be?” “As I tried to explain to Congressman Green, from the C.D.C. perspective —” “OK, I’m asking for a name. Who is in charge of making sure that people who need to get tested, who are indicated to be tested, can get a test? Who?” “Yeah, I was trying to say that the responsibility that I have at C.D.C. is make sure all the public health labs have it, and they can make the judgment on how they want to use it.” “But they’re referencing people who have been advised to be tested to you, and they’ve been turned down. So is it you?” “As I said, I’m going to look into the specifics — “I know that. So basically you’re saying, reclaiming my time, basically you seem to be saying, because you can’t name anyone specifically, that there’s no one specifically in charge that we can count on to make sure that people who need to be tested — health care workers or anyone else — there’s not one person that can ensure that these tests can be administered. Yes or no?” “My colleague is looking at me to answer. The system, the system does not, is not really geared to what we need right now, what you are asking for. That is a failing.” “A failing, yes.” “It is a failing. Let’s admit it. The fact is, the way the system was set up is that the public health component that Dr. Redfield was talking about was a system where you put it out there in the public and a physician asks for it and you get it. The idea of anybody getting it easily the way people in other countries are doing it — we’re not set up for that. Do I think we should be? Yes, but we’re not.” “OK that’s really disturbing, and I appreciate the information.”Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz pressed top health officials about the current shortcomings of the government’s coronavirus response.CreditCredit...Joshua Roberts/ReutersOne of the country’s top health officials said that the government’s coronavirus testing methods were inadequate in testimony on Capitol Hill on Thursday.Speaking at a House committee hearing on coronavirus testing, Dr. Anthony S. Fauci, the director of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, and Dr. Robert Redfield, the director of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, fielded pointed questions about rising frustration over a lack of testing kits across the country. “The system does not, is not really geared to what we need right now, what you are asking for,” Dr. Fauci said. “That is a failing. It is a failing, let’s admit it.”Dr. Fauci had stepped in to respond to a question, from Representative Debbie Wasserman Schultz of Florida, to Dr. Redfield about who was ultimately responsible for overseeing testing. “The idea of anybody getting it, easily, the way people in other countries are doing it, we are not set up for that,” Dr. Fauci added. “Do I think we should be? Yes. But we are not.” U.S. restrictions on travel from Europe draw anger and confusion. ImageCredit...Bernat Armangue/Associated PressTraveling Americans sought to understand what Mr. Trump’s plan meant for them, and European Union leaders sharply condemned the move, even as many nations on the Continent moved to tighten their own restrictions on the movement of people. “The coronavirus is a global crisis, not limited to any continent and it requires cooperation rather than unilateral action,” a statement from European leaders said. “The European Union disapproves of the fact that the U.S. decision to impose a travel ban was taken unilaterally and without consultation.”Italy’s government reported more than 15,000 infections through Thursday, a jump of more than 2,000, and more than 1,000 deaths. With the worst outbreak outside of China, Italy is under a national lockdown. In France, which has more than 2,280 cases, President Emmanuel Macron announced that the country’s schools and universities would close starting next week.Mr. Trump imposed a 30-day ban on foreigners who in the previous two weeks have been in any of the 26 countries that make up Europe’s Schengen Area of open borders. American citizens, permanent legal residents and their families returning to the U.S. would not be affected; neither would cargo. In appearances on several morning television shows on Thursday, Mr. Pence said that Americans returning from the affected area in the next 30 days would be required to self-quarantine for two weeks. Reporting was contributed by Elizabeth Dias, Peter Baker, Katie Glueck, Sydney Ember, Elisabetta Povoledo, Steven Erlanger, Alissa J. Rubin, Alexandra Stevenson, Daniel Victor, Austin Ramzy, Russell Goldman, Livia Albeck-Ripka, Albee Zhang, Derrick Bryson Taylor, Daniel Victor, Sui-Lee Wee, Annie Karni, Andrew Knoll, Marc Santora, Megan Specia, Declan Walsh, Vindu Goel, Michael Crowley, Patricia Mazzei, Nicholas Fandos, Kevin Draper, Mihir Zaveri, Katie Robertson, Elian Peltier, Jason Horowitz, Emma Bubola, Nicholas Bogel-Burroughs, Emily Cochrane, Adam Liptak, Jorge Arangure, Matthew Futterman, Ruth Maclean, Elaine Yu, Amy Qin, Alan Rappeport, Emily Cochrane, Karen Zraick, Sandra E. Garcia, Sarah Mervosh, Scott Cacciola, Sopan Deb, Brooks Barnes, Noah Weiland, Sheri Fink, Mike Baker, Monika Pronczuk, Melissa Eddy, Roni Caryn Rabin, Donald G. McNeil Jr., Andrew Keh, Ernesto Londoño, Aurelien Breeden, Katie Thomas, Jill Cowan, Thomas Fuller, Richard Pérez-Peña, Dagny Salas and Ian Austen.