News AnalysisCredit...Maddie McGarvey for The New York TimesJuly 31, 2019One month after a wobbly debate performance that reinforced the perceived weaknesses of the ostensible front-runner — Is he too old? Too nostalgically moderate? Too politically brittle to defend himself when challenged? — former Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. settled behind his center-stage lectern on Wednesday night and supplied some answers: He is still old. He is still nostalgic. And he is still the front-runner, until someone can prove otherwise.Far from perfect, and rarely exactly steady, Mr. Biden nonetheless achieved at least some of the goals that seemed to elude him last time.He had promised before the debate that this time he would not be so “polite.” About 30 minutes in, after listening to liberal rivals lash his health care vision as insufficiently ambitious and dismiss concerns about cost as a Republican talking point, Mr. Biden widened his eyes a bit. He waved a hand, slicing the air. He had just the word.“This idea is a bunch of malarkey,” he said of the criticisms, leaning on a trademark Bidenism. He accused his peers of underselling the trillions of dollars that a “Medicare for all”-style plan might cost, turning toward two more progressive rivals — Senator Kamala Harris of California and Mayor Bill de Blasio of New York — to level the kind of zealous defense of center-leftism that has often escaped him in this campaign: “I don’t know what math you do in New York,” Mr. Biden said. “I don’t know what math you do in California. But I tell ya, that’s a lot of money.”Throughout the evening, he plowed through a series of forceful defenses of his service alongside former President Barack Obama, frequently eager to wrap himself in Mr. Obama’s legacy on issues from health care to climate and never missing a chance to remind audiences of his association with sunnier Democratic times.Videotranscripttranscript‘That’s Not Hyperbole!’: A Guide to Joe Biden’s Favorite SayingsDuring his decades in public office, Former Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. developed a unique set of phrases, dubbed “Bidenisms” by his close observers. Here’s what to watch for.It was perhaps the most dramatic moment of the first presidential primary debates. “Senator Kamala Harris laced into Vice President Biden’s record on civil rights.” “We have to take it seriously. We have —” This was a searing exchange on race that put Biden on the defensive. “I’m the guy that extended the Voting Rights Act for 25 years.” And then, this happened: “I agree that everybody, once they in — anyway, my time’s up. I’m sorry.” “Thank you, vice president.” “This was a significant exchange for substantive reasons. But at a rhetorical level, Mr. Biden’s response was also revealing.” “Anyway, my time’s up. I’m sorry.” “Thank you, vice president.” Katie Glueck has been covering Biden for a while. “I have listened to dozens and dozens of Joe Biden speeches and have read all of his books as well. Use of the term ‘anyway’ is just one in a long list of what many folks refer to as Bidenisms. That is a reference to the distinctive way that Vice President Biden often speaks. Some Bidenisms include the term ‘anyway,’ ‘look folks,’ ‘here’s the deal,’ ‘I’m serious,’ ‘that’s not hyperbole,’ ‘not a joke.’” “Folks, we need to recognize that words matter.” “Mr. Biden entered the 2020 presidential campaign as the early poll leader. And his supporters love his folksy style. For others however, who are interested in a fresher face, the way that Mr. Biden speaks is another reminder that he came up in a different political generation.” “I announce my candidacy for president of the United States.” And if you’re a close observer of Mr. Biden’s speech patterns, you can detect a couple of different themes. “And folks. Folks. This election. It’s not hyperbole to suggest. This is not hyperbole. This election is literally bigger than politics. And that is not hyperbole.” “What he’s saying is, ‘This is important.’” “This is not hyperbole. It all may come down to Pennsylvania, not a joke. No, no, not a joke. Not a joke.” “And sometimes Mr. Biden just says it straight out.” “No, and I’m serious.” “I’m serious.” “I’m serious.” “So Vice President Biden would be the first to admit that he is not someone who always sticks to the script. He can be gaffe prone.” “The next president of the United States, Barack Amer—” “But he does pride himself on straight talk. When he uses phrases, like —” “Here’s the deal. Here’s the deal. Daughters always are wonderful. Well, here’s the deal, guys. Here’s the deal.” “What he’s saying is, ‘This is sincere.’ Biden has a decadeslong record in government and with that comes years of stories that he likes telling. The end result can sometimes be a little bit of meandering.” “And I really mean that. And I didn’t plan on going into that.” “And so if you listen closely —” “But I didn’t know that —” “He often uses the term ‘anyway’ to wrap it up or to get back on message.” “And so anyway, did I answer your question?” And certainly, Mr. Biden is not the only candidate to rely on a particular set of phrases. “Millionaires and billionaires.” But for Mr. Biden, his speech patterns go deeper. “Biden’s phrases are not tied to a particular policy prescription or even a particular political slogan.” And perhaps they speak to his roots. “Before he was vice president, Mr. Biden was for decades a senator from Delaware, which is a pretty small state. And some of his speaking mannerisms can in fact be viewed as a little bit of a reflection of the place where he actually did have that personal connection with so many people.” “Quite frankly, folks.” “If you are watching a public appearance from Joe Biden, you are virtually guaranteed to see him use at least one of these phrases.” [singing]During his decades in public office, Former Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. developed a unique set of phrases, dubbed “Bidenisms” by his close observers. Here’s what to watch for.Certainly, he did acknowledge some differences: He said he would renegotiate the Trans-Pacific Partnership, a major trade agreement he advocated as vice president.Even while his record was under attack, Mr. Biden, 76, played the happy statesman, or tried to, occasionally slipping as he addressed far younger contenders. “Go easy on me, kid,” Mr. Biden said to Ms. Harris, a United States senator and former attorney general of California who is 54 years old, as they took the stage.In an exchange with Julián Castro, the former federal housing secretary and San Antonio mayor, Mr. Biden referred to him as “Julián” and then thought better of it — “excuse me, the secretary.”Discussing criminal justice reform with Senator Cory Booker, who has been sharply critical of Mr. Biden’s record on that matter, he jokingly skipped ahead, calling him the president and stopping himself as he lightheartedly grabbed Mr. Booker’s arm — “excuse me, the future president.”And in an opening statement that seemed to reinforce the introductory theme of his campaign — taking relentless aim at President Trump — Mr. Biden nodded to the diversity of fellow Democrats onstage, appearing sensitive to the balance of running against them as a white male septuagenarian.“We are strong and great because of this diversity, Mr. President, not in spite of it,” he said, pushing back against Mr. Trump’s latest grievance-powered rhetoric. “So Mr. President, let’s get something straight. We love it. We are not leaving it. We are here to stay, and we’re certainly not going to leave it to you.”VideotranscripttranscriptHighlights From Night 2 of the July Democratic DebatesFormer Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. and Senator Kamala Harris sparred while fending off attacks from fellow candidates on health care and criminal justice reform.“Unfortunately, Vice President Biden, you’re just simply inaccurate in what you’re describing.” “The cost of doing nothing is far too expensive.” “I’m going to go back to Vice President Biden.” “You do nothing to hold the insurance companies to task for what they have been doing to American families.” “Kamala Harris said she’s not trying to restructure society—” “She put over 1,500 people in jail for marijuana violations and then laughed about it when she was asked if she ever smoked marijuana.” “She had a police department when she was there that in fact was abusing people’s rights.” “You want to compare records, and frankly, I’m shocked that you do—” “It looks like one of us has learned the lessons of the past, and one of us hasn’t.” “Mr. Vice President, there’s a saying in my community: You’re dipping into the Kool-Aid and you don’t even know the flavor.” “Mr. Vice President, you didn’t answer my question. What did you mean when you said, when a woman works outside the home, it’s resulting in ‘the deterioration of family’?” “Mr. Vice President, you want to be president of the United States, you need to be able to answer the tough questions. I guarantee you, if you’re debating Donald Trump, he’s not going to let you off the hook.” “I love your affection for me. You spent a lot of time with me.” “And I don’t know what math you do in New York. I don’t know what math you do anywhere, California. But I tell you, that’s a lot of money.” “This idea is a bunch of malarkey, what we’re talking about here.” “... that puts working people first.” Protester: “Fire Pantaleo!” “Thank you, Mayor de Blasio.” “The—” “Fire Pantaleo! Fire Pantaleo!” Protester: “Three million deportations!” “Please be respectful. Please be respectful in the crowd.” “I think that folks are making a mistake by not pursuing impeachment.” “I just want to make sure whatever we do doesn’t end up with an acquittal by Mitch McConnell in the Senate, which it surely would. And then President Trump would be running saying that he had been acquitted by the United States Congress.” “When we look back in history at what happened when a president of the United States started acting more like an authoritarian leader than the leader of the free world, the question is, what will we have done? And I believe the Congress should do its job.” “We have a predator living in the White House.” “We can no longer allow a white nationalist to be in the White House.” “The first thing that I’m going to do when I’m president is I’m going to Clorox the Oval Office.” “Adios to Donald Trump.”Former Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. and Senator Kamala Harris sparred while fending off attacks from fellow candidates on health care and criminal justice reform.CreditCredit...Erin Schaff/The New York Times[Read our full recap of Night 2 of the Democratic debates.]Mr. Biden’s standing atop the field is far from assured, and some rival campaigns still consider him a paper-tiger favorite, doomed to crumble eventually under the weight of his lengthy record and indiscipline on the stump.He has still struggled to communicate a detailed affirmative blueprint of what his presidency might look like and has yet to face Senator Elizabeth Warren, who has fashioned herself as the candidate with a policy plan for every occasion, on a debate stage.And his first debate performance was so rocky, and so alarmed even close allies and advisers, that he did not have a high bar to clear Wednesday night.But the forum provided a chance to articulate, at least in broad strokes, a compelling argument for the kind of deliberately paced change he is espousing, one night after Ms. Warren and Senator Bernie Sanders outlined their shared promise of far more extensive social and economic upheaval. It was also an opportunity to move beyond his disquieting showing five weeks ago, when an evening of wandering and defensive answers seemed to threaten a bedrock claim of Mr. Biden’s candidacy: that no other Democrat has the presence and moxie to stare down Mr. Trump.That night in Miami, it was Ms. Harris who initiated the conflict, drawing on her personal experience with busing as a young black girl in California to castigate the former vice president for his warm remembrances of working with segregationist senators. Mr. Biden appeared flat-footed, defiant but sputtering, at one point stopping himself abruptly with an unfortunate phrase: “Anyway, my time is up.”Entering Wednesday, Mr. Biden seemed determined to abandon such deference. As even admirers acknowledge that he can no longer float above the fray — with the fray savaging his long and often less-than-liberal record at every opportunity — Mr. Biden has in recent weeks demonstrated an increased willingness to engage, responding in kind to Ms. Harris and Senator Cory Booker, who has called Mr. Biden “an architect of mass incarceration.”ImageCredit...Erin Schaff/The New York TimesSome of Mr. Biden’s allies had described the first debate as a wake-up call for him — a reminder that, regardless of his previous relationships with these Democratic candidates, he could no longer expect the decorous treatment he enjoyed as vice president. His supporters urged him to focus on the future rather than rehashing the more controversial elements of his past.“To the extent he spends his time getting wrapped up in relitigating statements or comments or votes from 30 or 40 years ago, I think we lose, all of us, collectively,” said Senator Chris Coons, a Delaware Democrat and close ally of Mr. Biden’s. “What is constructive is when our candidates put their best foot forward on the debate stage, and show how they would be the best answer to the question that Middle America is asking: If we give you back the keys, Democrats, where will you take us?”At times on Wednesday, Mr. Biden appeared particularly keen to embrace the “middle” part. He made clear that he was familiar with his opponents’ records on sensitive matters like criminal justice and policing, issuing criticisms of those records that could have come from another candidate further to the left. But on immigration, Mr. Biden proudly adopted a more centrist mantle, at a time when many Democratic strategists fear some in the presidential field are veering too far with calls to decriminalize unauthorized border crossings. “The fact of the matter is, you should be able to, if you cross the border illegally, you should be able to be sent back,” Mr. Biden said. “It’s a crime.”When pressed on the number of deportations that took place while Mr. Obama was in the White House — amid the shouts of some protesters — Mr. Biden staunchly defended the administration’s broader approach. But as Mr. de Blasio needled Mr. Biden over whether he had personally spoken up, Mr. Biden showed a flash of exasperation.“I was vice president,” he said. “I am not the president. I keep my recommendation in private. Unlike you, I expect you would go ahead and say whatever was said privately with him. That is not what I do. What I do say to you is, he moved to fundamentally change the system.”While Mr. Biden was crisper and more energetic on Wednesday than he was in the first debate, his verbal tics and signature self-interruptions were hardly eradicated. He still cut himself off, at times with a well-worn trail-off: “Anyway …”Mr. Biden’s advisers said ahead of the debate that they anticipated that he would be the main target of the other candidates onstage, and candidates from Mr. de Blasio to Ms. Harris to Mr. Booker aimed to deliver. But throughout the debate, Ms. Harris was also the subject of repeated criticism across the stage, from Senator Michael Bennet on health care to Representative Tulsi Gabbard on criminal justice.In one early exchange on health care, Mr. Biden signaled quickly that he would gladly join the effort. “You can’t beat President Trump with double-talk,” he said, accusing Ms. Harris of vacillating and equivocating in her health care plans. Ms. Harris landed some of her own zingers — “They’re probably confused because they’ve not read it,” she said of the Biden campaign’s critique of her proposal — but often found herself on the defensive, occasionally demoting the former vice president to “Senator Biden” as she collected herself for a response.Ms. Harris and Mr. Booker are particularly eager to chip away at Mr. Biden’s expansive backing among black voters, who still recall him fondly from his eight years as Mr. Obama’s sidekick.Yet one lesson of Mr. Biden’s first debate is how durable much of his support seems to be so far. While Mr. Biden initially saw his standing fall a bit in polls, with Ms. Harris especially rising, he appears to have reestablished a comfortable lead in recent surveys.[Sign up for our politics newsletter and join the conversation around the 2020 presidential race.]A Quinnipiac University national poll released Monday showed Mr. Biden well ahead of his competitors: He was the choice of 34 percent of Democratic voters and Democratic-leaning voters, the survey found, while Ms. Harris came in at 12 percent. Among black voters the numbers were starker: Mr. Biden had the support of 53 percent of black Democratic voters; Ms. Harris claimed only 7 percent.Perhaps channeling some confidence from those poll numbers, Mr. Biden vigorously defended his own record throughout the debate, appearing more comfortable than he had in June.Not every flourish worked. In his closing statement, Mr. Biden seemed to show his age a little while trying to promote a way to join his campaign. “Go to Joe 30330,” he said, apparently conflating a website with a text message destination. The result, instead, was malarkey.