    Ayotte is now stuck in the center of the fight over gun control. TILTON, N.H. — Sen. Kelly Ayotte’s town hall meeting here ended with scant discussion of gun control, an issue that consumed Washington for much of the past month.  Pro-gun control activists, who attended the meeting, were incensed. Security brushed aside two women who approached Ayotte and demanded to speak with the first-term Republican about her vote against expanded background checks for commercial gun sales, underscoring the lingering controversy that continues to hover over the New Hampshire senator.  “It’s a mixed reaction,” Ayotte told POLITICO as she rushed for the exits. “Something both sides feel strongly about.”  ( Also on POLITICO: Sandy Hook victim’s family presses Ayotte on guns)  In the aftermath of the Senate’s failed vote two weeks ago to expand background checks, New Hampshire has suddenly emerged as ground zero in the national battle over gun control, with Ayotte now stuck at the center of the fight.  Powerful outside groups run by former Rep. Gabrielle Giffords and New York Mayor Michael Bloomberg are bankrolling ads and vowing to dump huge resources into the state to force Ayotte to reverse her opposition to the bill or pay the political consequences. And after two years of projecting a profile as a foreign policy and deficit hawk, her critics in the state have spent the past two weeks trying to rebrand her as: “NRAyotte.”  Meanwhile, the National Rifle Association is running radio ads thanking her for her support.  ( PHOTOS: Kelly Ayotte's career)  The emotional fight threatens to transform Ayotte — a young conservative Republican woman whose star is on the rise — into a polarizing figure back home on a contentious issue. Instead of taking up the banner of gun rights, Ayotte is seeking a lower profile on the subject in a state where she’s become the last Republican in the all-female congressional delegation.  “It hurts her,” said Kathy Sullivan, a longtime Democratic operative and former head of the state party here. “Elections are won in New Hampshire with the vote of independents, particularly independent women. Independent women will not favor a candidate who does not believe in background checks. Will it be the only issue? No, but it will be an issue.”  ( PHOTOS: Pols speak out on gun control)  Ayotte, for her part, seems to wish it would all go away, as she finds herself in the middle of a firestorm for the first time in her short Senate career. The freshman Republican represents a libertarian-minded state that has been a stronghold for gun rights, but polls show strong support for expanded background checks. A February WMUR Granite State poll showed that 88 percent of New Hampshire adults support background checks. And Ayotte’s approval rating has taken a hit in the wake of her vote — a recent Public Policy Polling survey showed that half of Granite State voters were less likely to support her in 2016 as a result of her ‘no’ vote on guns. A separate University of New Hampshire poll last month found her support holding steady, with 50 percent approving of her performance.  Ayotte’s town halls have hardly been promoted by her office, and she emphasizes bipartisanship on issues ranging from slashing the deficit to fixing Obamacare. The topics of question have been carefully screened by moderators. And she has refused to be interviewed by reporters.  There’s a long time between now and 2016, when Ayotte faces voters for a second time. Unlike her first election in the GOP wave of 2010, the 2016 election will take place during a presidential year, changing the dynamics considerably. And unlike other Northeastern states, New Hampshire has heavy gun ownership, with some surveys projecting about 47 percent of families own a gun.  Indeed, gun-rights activists are lionizing Ayotte, calling her “common-sense Kelly” for opposing the Senate plan, which was advanced with the help of another Northeastern Republican, Pat Toomey. The NRA — which has awarded Ayotte an “A” rating — is already on the air defending her for opposing “misguided” gun laws.  “We’ve had pendulum elections since I lost my election in 2006,” said former Rep. Jeb Bradley, the moderator of a town hall Tuesday who screened questioners’ topics. “Every cycle has seen the pendulum swing one way or another. … The pendulum is more likely to swing back to the center and center-right.”  The 44-year-old Ayotte, a mother of two, served for five years as state attorney general before winning her election in 2010 to fill the seat of retiring Sen. Judd Gregg, the Republican who voted to reinstate the assault weapons ban in 2004. Her hard-fought primary win drew the support of Sarah Palin, but she won easily in the general election against former Rep. Paul Hodes. Before serving as state attorney general, Ayotte worked as a state prosecutor, chief of the homicide unit, including investigating the 2001 killings of two Dartmouth professors.  Ayotte points to her law enforcement background when she argues for greater prosecutions under existing laws and changes to the mental health system to prevent certain individuals from purchasing firearms.  “Overall, it’s a 50-50 issue,” said former New Hampshire GOP Sen. John Sununu. “I think a lot of the groups that are criticizing Kelly right now are part of the special interest cycle — which means the right thing to do is vote your conscience.” Gun control activists disagree, arguing that nine out of 10 voters back the more expansive background checks that Ayotte rejected. And they warn that’ll be a problem for her in a state that has grown increasingly Democratic in the past 20 years, and where there are more female voters with liberal leanings. All of this makes Ayotte a ripe target.  “I think Kelly Ayotte being a Republican woman in the Senate and a vocal conservative Republican woman in a region in the country that doesn’t have many of those, I think, stands out,” said Andy Smith, a political pollster at the University of New Hampshire. “I think there’s also a perception among Democrats that she has future political ambitions — and it’s a lot easier to take somebody out early on before they gain more of a national reputation.”  Indeed, the “no” vote presented a political dilemma for Ayotte. Last month, she first voted to allow debate to begin on the gun control issue, prompting outrage from gun rights activists in New Hampshire. And when Sen. John McCain (R-Ariz.) — with whom she frequently aligns on controversial issues — announced his support of the background checks plan, some thought it would provide sufficient cover for Ayotte to back it as well.  But in announcing her opposition to the proposal, Ayotte argued it would place an undue burden on those who have to go through the new system. But she didn’t detail those concerns to those attending a pair of town halls on Tuesday. Instead, she emphasized her desire to improve the mental health system and only once criticized the background checks bill by saying it wouldn’t have prevented last year’s killings in nearby Newtown, Conn.  Now, there’s talk by Sen. Joe Manchin, the lead sponsor of the background checks bill, to revive the effort with Toomey. But Ayotte has privately indicated to the senators she has little appetite to do so, according to a source familiar with the matter.  “I took a lot of heat, I will say, from members of my own party who didn’t like the fact I voted to actually go to debate on this issue because we can have strong disagreements,” Ayotte said at a town hall meeting in Warren, N.H., a town of 904 people.  At that meeting, she was confronted by 27-year-old Erica Lafferty, the daughter of the slain principal at Sandy Hook Elementary School. Lafferty was furious at Ayotte for appearing to sidestep her question.  Activists reiterated the same concern at a Tuesday evening town hall in Tilton.  The moderator at that event seemed intent on avoiding tough questions on gun control, selecting just one question on the issue of mental health with about 10 minutes left in the session. Furious activists demanded Ayotte detail her stand on gun control and background checks.  After the meeting, two activists stormed toward Ayotte shouting, “We want to talk to our senator!”  “If Sen. Ayotte made the right vote, she needs to come out and talk to constituents about it,” said one of the activists, Zandra Rice Hawkins of the group Granite State Progress. “She made a decision not to.”  