Three Women, Missing for Years, Found in ClevelandCredit...Bill Pugliano/Getty ImagesMay 6, 2013Three young women from Cleveland who disappeared about a decade ago, and who friends and relatives feared were gone forever, were found on Monday and appeared to be physically unharmed, the authorities said.The police did not offer any immediate information about how the women were found, but they said in a statement that three men, all in their 50s, had been arrested in connection with the episode.The police identified the women as Amanda Berry, Gina DeJesus, who were in their teens when they disappeared, and Michelle Knight who was 20 when she vanished. All were found in a home in a residential neighborhood not far from where they reportedly disappeared.The police said they were executing a search warrant at the house, at 2207 Seymour Ave. On Tuesday, the three women were released from MetroHealth hospital, after they had been taken to the emergency room and were described as in “fair condition,” the hospital said. It said they were reunited with their families.In a recording of a 911 call released by the authorities to local news media, Ms. Berry tells a dispatcher that she had been kidnapped and pleads for the police to come before a man who is holding her captive returns.“I’m Amanda Berry, I’ve been on the news for the last 10 years,” she said.A neighbor, Charles Ramsey, told local television reporters that a woman’s screams drew him to a house on his block.“This girl is kicking the door and screaming,” he said. “I said, ‘Can I help? What’s going on?’ And she said, ‘I’ve been kidnapped, and I’ve been in this house a long time. And I want to leave right now.’ ”Mr. Ramsey said he and his neighbors broke through the door and Ms. Berry came out with a young child. It was not immediately clear if it was her child. He said the police then went in and brought out the other two women.Ms. Berry, who is now 27, was last seen leaving her job at a Cleveland Burger King in April 2003. Almost exactly a year later, Ms. Dejesus, now 23, disappeared as she was walking home from school. The police said that Ms. Knight vanished around 2000, but was assumed to have run away.Family members and friends of the women reacted to the news with a mixture of shock and elation.“I’m so thankful, God is good,” Kayla Rogers, a childhood friend of Ms. DeJesus, told The Cleveland Plain Dealer. “I’ve been praying. Never forgot about her, ever.”Television images showed neighbors lining the streets, applauding as emergency vehicles whisked the women away.