Credit...Pete Marovich/European Pressphoto AgencyMay 9, 2013WASHINGTON — House Republicans on Thursday intensified their criticism of the Obama administration for its handling of the assault on the diplomatic compound in Benghazi, with Speaker John A. Boehner calling for the release of an e-mail that he said showed that State Department officials believed from the start that “Islamic terrorists” were linked to the attack but have declined to say so publicly.Mr. Boehner’s demand, delivered the day after a dramatic hearing by a House committee, signaled that Republican leaders intend to continue portraying the attack as a major failure by the administration as well as a potentially effective issue against former Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton if she runs for president in 2016.“The State Department would not allow our committees to keep copies of this e-mail when it was reviewed,” Mr. Boehner said. “I would call on the president to order the State Department to release this e-mail so that the American people can see it.”During Wednesday’s hearing, Representative Trey Gowdy, Republican of South Carolina, read an excerpt from the e-mail, quoting what he said was a reference to the local militant group that carried out the attack, Ansar al-Shariah, as having links to “Islamic terrorists.” But a copy of the e-mail reviewed by The New York Times indicates that A. Elizabeth Jones, the senior State Department official who wrote it, referred to “Islamic extremists,” not terrorists.The distinction is important, administration officials said, because while the White House did not initially characterize the attack as terrorism, senior officials, including Ambassador Susan E. Rice, acknowledged the possibility that extremists had been involved in the assault.Mr. Gowdy and other Republicans dismissed that as a distinction without a difference, saying that the e-mail’s significance was in its timing — the day after the attack — and in its blunt description of what happened.“The group that conducted the attacks — Ansar al-Shariah — is affiliated with Islamic extremists,” Ms. Jones, an acting assistant secretary of state for Near Eastern Affairs, wrote in the e-mail, which was distributed to nine senior State Department officials, though not to Mrs. Clinton directly.The back and forth over a single word suggests the intensity of the political fight between the administration and Republicans over Benghazi. It flared up anew on Wednesday after three State Department officials testified that they faced intimidation and punishment after questioning how the episode was handled.“Four Americans lost their lives in this terrorist attack,” Mr. Boehner said, “and Congress is going to continue to investigate this issue using all the resources at our disposal.”For months, House Republicans have been pressing Mr. Boehner to take a more public stand on the matter, because it fires up the Republican base as lawmakers head into the midterm election cycle. Voters in the most conservative districts often raise the issue, giving the lawmakers fuel to bring back to the Capitol after weekends at home. VideoIn a show of partisan politics, a House committee held a hearing on the Sept. 11, 2012, terrorist attack on the American compound in Benghazi, Libya, that killed four Americans.CreditCredit...Drew Angerer for The New York TimesSix weeks ago, Mr. Boehner convened the heads of all the committees investigating Benghazi for a strategy session on how to keep the pressure on. Also invited was the House majority leader, Representative Eric Cantor of Virginia, as well as three Republican senators who have been outspoken on the attack: John McCain of Arizona, Lindsey Graham of South Carolina, and Kelly Ayotte of New Hampshire.Mr. Boehner’s demand for the e-mail goes to one strand of the dispute: the talking points drafted by intelligence agencies for use by Ms. Rice and other administration officials in providing their initial account of what happened last Sept. 11, when the diplomatic compound came under attack and four Americans, including Ambassador J. Christopher Stevens, were killed.The original talking points described “demonstrations” in Benghazi that were “spontaneously inspired” by an online video lampooning the Prophet Muhammad. The draft identified the suspected attackers as Ansar al-Shariah, with links to Al Qaeda in the Islamic Maghreb, an offshoot of Al Qaeda.The reference to Ansar al-Shariah and Al Qaeda were later deleted from the talking points because, administration officials said, it might tip off the suspects and impede the criminal investigation. The names were replaced with the term “extremists.”Ms. Rice, the ambassador to the United Nations, used the talking points in her appearance on five Sunday news programs the weekend after the attack. She was harshly criticized by Republicans for misleading the public when the White House subsequently characterized the attack as a premeditated terrorist act, not a protest gone awry.Republicans cited the e-mail as evidence that the administration believed this to be the case all along. They noted that Ms. Jones had made no mention of a demonstration or a video featuring Muhammad. The bulk of the e-mail was devoted to a call she had with the Libyan ambassador to Washington, Ali Aujali, over the treatment of the injured Americans and the public reaction of Libya’s leaders.Democrats dismissed the e-mail as a Republican attempt to recycle an issue that Mrs. Clinton addressed last fall.“ ‘Old news’ is an understatement — maybe Speaker Boehner just didn’t realize that this exact same issue was already addressed last October,” said Representative Elijah E. Cummings of Maryland, the ranking Democrat on the House Committee on Government Oversight and Reform, which held Wednesday’s hearing.The State Department said it had expressed concerns to Mr. Boehner’s office about Republicans’ reading of the e-mail. A spokesman, Patrick Ventrell, said, “One of the concerns is, the way the e-mail was read, there was a potential, inadvertent inaccuracy in the use of the word ‘terrorist.’ ”A spokesman for Mr. Boehner, Brendan Buck, said the speaker had not seen the e-mail; the State Department has allowed lawmakers to view it but has not publicly released it. Mr. Boehner has cast that as a breach of Mr. Obama’s promise to cooperate with Congress.Mr. Ventrell said the State Department had provided Congress with 25,000 pages of documents related to Benghazi. Other officials pointed out that the e-mail, which is unclassified, was clearly available to members, given that they were quoting it in hearings.None of this mollified Mr. Boehner.“If there’s clear evidence that the administration knew this event was a terrorist attack immediately, yet told the world a different story for weeks, that document needs to be made public,” Mr. Buck said.