    Unemployment fell to 7.7 percent in November as the economy added 146,000 jobs. New jobs numbers handed President Barack Obama fresh evidence for his strongest argument in fiscal cliff talks: His prescriptions have been healing the economy.  Slowly, surely, but it’s moving in the right direction, say Democrats, who used the November numbers — 146,000 new jobs and the unemployment rate at a 47-month low of 7.7 percent — to reiterate their call for freezing income tax rates for most Americans while increasing marginal rates for the wealthiest taxpayers.  “It is critical that we continue the policies that are building an economy that works for the middle class as we dig our way out of the deep hole that was caused by the severe recession that began in December 2007,” Alan B. Krueger, chairman of the White House Council of Economic Advisers, said. “Most pressing, President Obama has proposed, and the Senate has passed, an extension of middle-class income tax cuts that would prevent the typical middle-class family from facing a $2,200 tax increase at the beginning of next year.”  ( Also on POLITICO: W.H. to House GOP: We’re not moving)  The positive report gives Obama a bit more momentum just a month after he won a second term, and it strengthens his hand in negotiations with House Speaker John Boehner over a new deficit-reduction deal that would supersede the “fiscal cliff” of broad spending cuts and tax increases due to take effect next month.  Like an NFL quarterback who takes all the blame for a loss and all the credit for a win, Obama is now the primary political beneficiary of a slightly brighter economic picture.  Investors reacted positively to the news with the Dow Jones Industrial Average up slightly in morning trading.  Jobs numbers are always a bit of a political Rorschach test. Democrats and Republicans see what they want in the Labor Department’s data, and Republicans say raising taxes on the wealthy would threaten a fragile economic recovery.  “When a store manager is short staffed because looming tax hikes and uncertainty are stalling her hiring, that’s not right,” House Majority Leader Eric Cantor (R-Va.) said. “When 7.7% is cause for celebration, we know there is more work to be done. We must do better.”  Democrats counter that Republicans are risking just that outcome by holding up tax cuts for the overwhelming majority of Americans to bargain for the top 2 percent. Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid (D-Nev.) called out Boehner and Senate Minority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-Ky.) for that and for again using the debt limit as a political leverage point.  ( PHOTOS: Fiscal cliff’s key players)  “The steps we need to take to keep our economy moving in the right direction are simple. Speaker Boehner should pass the Senate’s middle-class tax cut bill immediately, and Senator McConnell should allow an up-or-down vote on his own proposal to give the president the authority to avoid default by raising the debt ceiling,” Reid said.  McConnell has suggested that Congress give the president the power to raise the debt ceiling, with Congress retaining the right to vote down the increase if it so chooses. But in an odd parlay on the Senate floor this week, McConnell called for a vote on the president’s version of his debt ceiling plan expecting Democrats to object because they did not have the votes to pass the White House proposal.  But confident he indeed had the needed 51 votes, Reid said he was ready to proceed. McConnell then backtracked saying Republicans would only allow a vote if 60 votes was the threshold.  THE CLIFF DEBATE  Republicans want current rates extended for all taxpayers and are reluctant to extend the rates for only the middle class first before a broader fiscal cliff deal is hammered out. They worry that the top taxpayers will be left out in the cold, slowing down economic growth.  They used Friday’s report to emphasize persistently high rates of unemployment, with House Speaker John Boehner blaming Obama’s tax proposals for stalling economic growth. “While the president insists on raising small businesses’ tax rates instead of cutting spending, small business hiring plans have plummeted,” he said. “That takes jobs away from the American people at the very time small businesses are struggling to create them.”  Added House and Ways Committee Chairman Dave Camp: “Every credible study has shown that the president’s insistence on higher tax rates will cost hundreds of thousands of jobs. I urge the president to look at today’s numbers and abandon his push for higher tax rates that threatens middle-class jobs.”  While the number was better than expected, it fits a two-year trend of an economy that continues to recover from the 2008 recession, but not recover quickly enough to close the massive employment gap created in the wake of the housing market collapse and ensuing financial crisis.  “At the current pace, we would not see the economy returning to full employment for another decade,” Dean Baker, an economist with the liberal Center for Economic and Policy Research. “Furthermore, there are more downside risks than upside — for example, if there were to be severe deficit reduction as a result of the current negotiations between President Obama and Congress.”  There are signs that the fiscal cliff deadlock is taking an economic toll. Consumer confidence fell sharpy in the beginning of December, according to the Reuters/University of Michigan consumer sentiment index released Friday.  And the deadline nears, both parties remain under pressure to get a fiscal cliff deal done soon.  The Congressional Budget Office last month said that if the tax increases and spending cuts were allowed to run their course, the U.S. economy would plunge into a recession and unemployment would reach north of 9 percent.  Some have argued that the damage done by a trip over the cliff would be minimized or eliminated if lawmakers reach a deal to reverse them early in the year, but other economists caution that the initial shocks could spark a broader economic panic.  Economists had expected superstorm Sandy, which caused billions in damage and brought much of the Atlantic Coast to a standstill, to whack the November numbers, but the Labor Department said Friday the storm’s impact was minimal.  ( PHOTOS: Hurricane Sandy)  The drop in the unemployment rate appears to have been caused by people leaving the labor market rather than job growth. The household survey — the Labor Department’s alternative, less accurate method of tracking job growth — recorded a slight decrease in the number of people with jobs in November, as well as a decrease of 350,000 in the total size of the labor market.  About 12 million people remain unemployed, and 4.8 million of those have been unsuccessfully seeking work for six months or more, Labor reported Friday. An additional 8.2 million people are involuntarily working part time as they unsuccessfully seek a full-time job.  Average hourly earnings rose by 4 cents in November, part of a 1.7 percent increase during the past 12 months.  The Labor Department economists Friday revised their initial October report of 171,000 jobs to 138,000. They also issued a final September tally of 132,000, up from an initial count of 114,000.  The jobs number has a margin for error of 100,000, while the unemployment rate’s margin for error is about 0.2 percent. The household survey has a margin for error of about 400,000.  The unemployment reported highlighted strong — but slightly shrinking — racial disparities within the labor market. Unemployment among blacks edged down to 13.2 percent in November, while the rate among whites remained unchanged at 6.8 percent. Unemployment among Hispanics remains unchanged at 10 percent and among Asians at 6.4 percent.  Adult men remain unemployed at 7.2 percent, slightly above the 7.0 percent rate for adult women. The unemployment rate for teenagers is 23.5 percent. The Labor Department defines an adult as someone 20-years-old and older. 
