    Ultimately, about 75 groups were subjected to additional review by the IRS. | REUTERS A classic Washington scandal is unfolding — complete with accusations of lies, abuse of power and questions about coverups.  To add to the intrigue, it involves one of the most hated government agencies: the Internal Revenue Service.  It all started Friday, when an IRS official — in an apparently off-handed remark — acknowledged and apologized for wrongly targeting conservative groups seeking nonprofit status.  ( Also on POLITICO: IRS knew of tea party targeting)  A firestorm quickly ensued and only deepened over the weekend with revelations that senior IRS officials have known about the targeting practice for several years. Republicans, meanwhile, are calling for additional investigations.  Here are five big questions on the rapidly evolving scandal:  1. What did senior IRS officials know; when did they know it; and were any laws broken?  This is what’s clear: Low-level employees in the IRS’s Cincinnati office began flagging conservative groups as early as 2010, according to the Treasury Inspector General for Tax Administration. Lois Lerner, who directs the agency’s tax-exempt groups unit, said applications were scrutinized if they included words such as “patriot” or “tea party.”  ( Also on POLITICO: Bill would penalize IRS lawbreakers)  For now, it appears that the Cincinnati employees took the initiative on their own to start flagging the applications. Lerner has vehemently dismissed GOP accusations that political motivations fueled the program.  She said the IRS often centralizes applications that need more study when there’s a sudden growth in similar requests for nonprofit status, but that process wasn’t carried out appropriately this time.  Ultimately, about 75 groups were subjected to additional review.  Lerner has so far declined to say when she first learned of the targeting practice and told reporters on Friday she didn’t remember when she notified her bosses.  ( Also on POLITICO: GOP outrage at IRS grows)  But a TIGTA report due out this week will say that senior IRS officials knew about the activities as early as 2011. That would seem to contradict testimony then-IRS Commissioner Doug Shulman provided to Congress in 2012 when he told lawmakers that the agency wasn’t providing extra scrutiny to groups because of their political affiliations.  Meanwhile, the details of what the IRS was after are becoming more clear. Lerner said that some of the groups, for instance, were asked for member or donor lists, which isn’t a typical IRS practice.  Lerner said it’s not illegal for the IRS to flag groups for extra review when the agency notices a spike in applications from the same type of organizations.  2. What does this mean for the Obama administration?  The IRS developments couldn’t come at a worse time for the White House, which has spent months courting GOP support for everything from gun control to an overhaul of immigration laws.  If the administration’s recent GOP charm offensive bought any goodwill, it seems to be on short supply now.  Sen. Susan Collins (R-Maine) is exactly the type of moderate lawmaker who might support the administration’s policy goals. But she made clear on Sunday that she isn’t pleased with how the White House — and President Barack Obama in particular — is handling the IRS debacle.  “I think that it’s very disappointing the president hasn’t personally condemned this and spoken out,” Collins said on CNN’s “State of the Union.” “The president needs to make it crystal clear that this is totally unacceptable in America.”  Meanwhile, Senate Minority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-Ky.) has called for Obama to order a “transparent, governmentwide review” to see if similar practices are happening elsewhere in the administration. 3. What happens next?  At least two House committees — Ways and Means as well as Oversight and Government Reform — have promised to hold hearings.  “The bottom line is they used key words to go after conservatives,” Oversight Committee Chairman Darrell Issa (R-Calif.) said on “Meet the Press” on Sunday. “There’s got to be accountability for people who are telling lies.”  Rep. Charles Boustany, the Louisiana Republican who chairs the Ways and Means oversight subcommittee, has already sent a letter to acting IRS Commissioner Steven Miller demanding that the agency turn over all communications that contain the words “tea party,” “patriot” or “conservative” by Wednesday.  Boustany also asked Miller for the names and titles of all “individuals involved in this discrimination.”  And, of course, developments this week could shift depending on other findings in the TIGTA report.  4. What don’t we know?  Perhaps the biggest unanswered question is the extent to which then-IRS Commissioner Doug Shulman was aware of the activities at the time he told Congress that conservative groups weren’t being targeted.  So far, he’s keeping quiet and not responding to interview requests. But he will almost certainly be called to testify at some of the many hearings congressional panels are planning to hold on the IRS’s actions.  The IRS released a statement on Saturday seeking to explain Shulman’s role. The agency said the timeline presented in the TIGTA report is accurate but added that Shulman was not aware of the details when he testified before Congress in March 2012.  “The timeline does not contradict the commissioner’s testimony. While exempt organizations officials knew of the situation earlier, the timeline reflects that IRS senior leadership did not have this level of detail,” the statement reads.  The linchpin will be who above Lerner — her post is three rungs down the ladder from the commissioner — knew about the activities and when.  The IRS responded to five requests from the House Ways and Means Committee since November 2011 but made no “mention of knowledge of targeting conservative groups,” according to committee documents.  It is common for agency chiefs to be briefed by department heads when preparing testimony and responding to congressional inquiries, so why Shulman’s senior officials did not share the extent of the targeting with him remains a mystery — and one that the Republican lawmakers are sure to dig in on.  5. Did the IRS target any other groups?  Lerner acknowledged that the IRS targeted other groups based on “inappropriate” search terms but declined to specify which terms — beyond “tea party” or “patriot” — triggered the reviews.  Z Street, a pro-Israel nonprofit, is suing the IRS for singling out its application. According to court documents filed by the group, the agency told Z Street officials in July 2010 that its application was delayed because the agency needed to “determine whether the organization’s activities contradict the administration’s public policies.”  The Associated Press reported that tax documents that included references to the 9/12 Project, a group created by conservative Glenn Beck — were also flagged for extra review.  Nonprofit conservative media groups have long argued they also faced unwarranted IRS attention.  And while most of the attention is focused on the scrutiny on conservative organizations, it’s unclear whether some liberal groups will come forward in the coming days saying that they also went through extra rounds of questions with the agency.  Tarini Parti contributed to this report. 
