    Steven Miller went before the panel Friday. | M.Scott Mahaskey/POLITICO Acting IRS Commissioner Steven Miller struck a defiant tone on Friday under intense questioning from Republicans who railed against “systemic abuse” at the agency.  In the first congressional hearing probing the agency’s recently revealed practice of targeting conservative groups seeking a tax exemption, Miller apologized for “foolish mistakes” carried out by “people trying to be more efficient in their workload selection.”  But he strongly pushed back against Republican assertions that the agency is politicized, insisted that the practice of flagging key terms in applications for tax exemptions is legal and even praised a civil servant coming under heavy GOP criticism for working in the agency’s scandal-ridden tax exempt division before helping it implement the health care overhaul.  ( Also on POLITICO: Camp: Politics behind IRS leaks)  And he maintained that he didn’t lie to Congress — even though he never revealed the targeting program in response to repeated requests from Republican lawmakers in recent years.  “I did not mislead Congress,” he said. “I answered the questions as they were asked.”  The hearing, which spanned nearly four hours, left Republicans frustrated and yearning for more information.  Miller’s answers “are not very complete,” said House Ways and Means Committee Chairman Dave Camp (R-Mich.), who led the hearing. “We’re not done. We found out about this a week ago, so we’re going to continue to examine.”  Miller stepped down on Wednesday at the request of Treasury Secretary Jack Lew. But he told lawmakers at the hearing that he currently remains in the position as the agency transitions to a new leader. President Barack Obama said on Thursday that he appointed Daniel Werfel, the current controller of the Office of Management and Budget, to succeed Miller as acting IRS commissioner next week.  ( WATCH: POLITICO Junkies: IRS heads roll - who's next?)  Two things became clear as the hearing played out: The IRS didn’t inadvertently announce the targeting program last year as it initially appeared, and Republicans are dedicated to expanding the scope of their investigation.  Miller indicated on Friday that agency officials had discussed how to talk about the controversial targeting program before Lois Lerner, the director of the agency’s tax exempt division, was scheduled to appear at an American Bar Association conference on May 10.  Her comments that the agency was wrong to flag nonprofit applications if they included the terms “tea party” or “patriot” triggered a firestorm that has held Washington’s attention for a week.  “I believe we talked about that,” Miller said, referring to the discussions in advance of Lerner’s public appearance.  ( PHOTOS: 10 slams on the IRS)  Meanwhile, Republicans are making it clear they don’t intend to limit their investigations to the initial news that the IRS gave extra review to groups that used certain terms. Camp is also drawing in other IRS actions that have had conservatives stewing for a long time — like a March 2012 Huffington Post story that he said disclosed confidential donor information for the National Organization for Marriage.  He also cited a ProPublica article that said the IRS had leaked the applications conservative groups had submitted for tax-exempt status.  Meanwhile, Miller maintained the agency’s insistence that no one at the IRS told the White House of its activities.  Miller’s testimony didn’t go far to soothe the outrage that has festered among Republicans. House Budget Committee Chairman Paul Ryan (R-Wis.), who sits on Ways and Means, added to the GOP narrative that the IRS intentionally withheld key information from Congress.  “How can we not conclude that you misled” lawmakers, he asked.  “Is this still America?” asked Rep. Kevin Brady (R-Texas). “Is this government so drunk on power that it would turn its full force … to harass” Americans?  Miller responded that he took “exception” to the term “targeting.”  “It’s a loaded term,” he said.  He later explained that he felt the term “implies something that didn’t exist here.”  Democrats on Ways and Means were also tough on the agency. Rep. Jim McDermott (D-Wash.) said both parties in Congress are unusually united in their dismay at the IRS’s actions.  “This issue has brought us together in a way unlike anything we’ve seen here,” he said. “As much as I dislike the right, I think it’s wrong to be uneven-handed in government application.”  Michigan Rep. Sander Levin, the committee’s top Democrat, said Miller and former IRS Commissioner Doug Shulman had an “obligation” to inform the committee of the targeting program.  “Neither fulfilled their obligations,” he said.  Levin was the first high-level Democrat to call for Miller’s ouster this week.  Joseph Grant, the commissioner of the agency’s tax exempt and government entities division, announced his retirement on Thursday.  All eyes are now on Lerner, the director of the nonprofit tax division at the center of the controversy. She has been invited to testify before the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform next week, but her appearance has not been confirmed.  Levin said Lerner should also be “relieved of her duties.”  From the beginning, it was clear that Miller had stepped into hostile territory. As he denied that political motives played a role in the targeting program, members in the audience audibly laughed or sighed.  At one point, he pushed back on the idea — promoted by Rep. Thomas Reed (R-N.Y.) — that Miller was getting off easy because he’ll keep his government benefits.  “Nothing bad is going to happen to you,” Reed said.  Miller responded with incredulity: “Nothing bad is happening to me, congressman?”  David Nather contributed to this report.  CORRECTION: An earlier version of this story incorrectly reported that Miller called Lois Lerner a “superb civil servant.” Those comments referred to another IRS employee. 
