    Pressure for Obama to revamp the nation’s counter-terrorism policy has been rising. | AP Photos A heckler briefly interrupted President Barack Obama while he was arguing with himself on Thursday.  Days after Obama told reporters he makes “no apologies” about surveillance of Associated Press reporters, the president summoned his inner constitutional law professor to prioritize civil liberties and human rights after four years of aggressive anti-terrorism policy.  “This is a real struggle for him, it wears on him,” said an aide who has worked with Obama on policy. “He’s a constitutional lawyer and a commander in chief. He sees a parity in those two roles.”  ( PHOTOS: Pro, con: Best quotes about drones)  Halfway through the announcement of the subtle but significant policy changes — ranging from plans to curtail drone strikes to a renewed push to transfer Guantánamo detainees to super-max prisons on the mainland — Obama found himself outshouted by a Code Pink protester demanding even faster action.  After trying to quiet the leather-lunged woman, Obama expressed a kind of weary solidarity, in spirit, if not on substance.  “These are tough issues and the suggestion we can gloss over them is wrong,” said Obama — whose four years in office have been marked by an escalation in the use of drones and surveillance that represents a continuation of the “war on terror” policies initiated during the Bush-Cheney years.  ( Also on POLITICO: 5 questions on Obama's security address)  “I’m willing to cut the young lady who interrupted me some slack because it’s worth being passionate about. Is this who we are? Is that something our Founders foresaw? Is that the America we want to leave our children? Our sense of justice is stronger than that,” Obama added during a sober address at the National Defense University in Washington.  ( POLITICO PODCAST: Professor Obama vs. President Obama)  Obama’s speech came at a peculiar moment in his presidency — after 10 days of unrelenting scandal, media scrutiny and GOP attacks — and his decision to dive back into a decade-old debate represents his desire to divert debate back to the policy questions at the root of the Benghazi and Justice Department controversies. It also exposed a rare public twinge of guilt — an admission of the self-doubt that stalks a decision-making process as painful as any in his presidency.  The speech, a senior administration official said during a briefing with reporters, was intended “to discuss at length the various trade-offs and questions that he wrestles with. …”  The pressure for Obama to revamp the nation’s counterterrorism policy has been rising amid reports of renewed hunger strikes by Guantánamo detainees, increasing calls from congressional Democrats to create a clearer protocol for drone attacks against suspected terrorists — especially U.S. citizens who turn on their country — and boiling outrage in Afghanistan, Pakistan and Yemen over drone attacks that have killed innocent civilians.  Some of the pressure for change was self-imposed: Obama referred to the shuttering of Guantánamo as unfinished business in his second inaugural and reiterated his commitment a few weeks ago during a press conference.  Former Obama press secretary Robert Gibbs said the policy shifts don’t reflect a change of heart so much as a recognition that the tough first-term policies paved the way for a reassessment.  “In 2009 and 2010, decimating Al Qaeda and its central leadership outweighed the cost in our standing in the world and in certain important countries,” Gibbs said. “Now, how we are viewed in Pakistan and elsewhere needs desperate improvement and, frankly, the damage to the terrorist network has been so vast that there are simply fewer [leaders] to target.”  Obama said he was trying to strike a “balance” between those two roles. But on Thursday he conceded that finding such an equilibrium was often hard and sometimes impossible. Even actions regarded as national triumphs in the U.S., like the raid into Pakistan that resulted in the killing of Osama bin Laden, have produced a dangerous backlash in the Islamic world. At times, Obama sounded like he was having a conversation with himself, first justifying his decision to increase drone missions and anti-terror surveillance, then reciting the collateral damage they wrought.  “Most of these changes [in national security policy] were sound,” Obama said while reciting a slow-rolling, contemplative 7,000-word address he’s been drafting for weeks with his aide Ben Rhodes.  “Some caused inconvenience. But some, like expanded surveillance, raised difficult questions about the balance that we strike between our interests in security and our values of privacy. And in some cases, I believe we compromised our basic values — by using torture to interrogate our enemies, and detaining individuals in a way that ran counter to the rule of law.”  Even as Obama was speaking, NBC News was dropping an investigative bombshell that brought the controversy of Justice Department snooping on reporters to his Cabinet Room. Attorney General Eric Holder, the network reported, personally signed off on a search warrant that labeled James Rosen of Fox News a “possible co-conspirator” in violations of the Espionage Act — and authorized the seizure of emails from a private account.  A department spokesman later described Holder’s actions as “consistent” with both his respect for the First Amendment and the administration’s commitment to plugging leaks in sensitive counterterrorism investigations.  Obama was less equivocal in his speech, and announced he had directed Holder to convene a panel of media organizations to propose changes to administration policy and would report back to him by July 12.  “I am troubled by the possibility that leak investigations may chill the investigative journalism that holds government accountable,” Obama said. “Journalists should not be at legal risk for doing their jobs.”  America, he declared “is at a crossroads… We must define the nature and scope of this struggle, or else it will define us. We have to be mindful of James Madison’s warning that “’No nation could preserve its freedom in the midst of continual warfare,’” he added. That language tracked closely to remarks he made during the 2008 campaign, when he questioned the legitimacy of warehousing detainees in Guantánamo, often on evidence that wouldn’t hold up in a U.S. court.  “[H]abeas corpus … it’s the foundation of Anglo-American law — which says very simply if the government grabs you, then you have the right to at least ask “’Why was I grabbed?’” and say, “’Hey, you’ve got the wrong person,’” he told a Michigan audience in September 2008.  “The reason you have that safeguard is because we don’t always catch the right person. We may think this is Mohammed the terrorist, it might be Mohammed the cab driver. You might think it’s Barack the bomb thrower, but it’s Barack the guy running for president. So the reason that you have this principle is not to be soft on terrorism, it’s because that’s who we are. That’s what we’re protecting. Don’t mock the Constitution. Don’t make fun of it. Don’t suggest that it’s un-American to abide by what the Founding Fathers set up. It’s worked pretty well for over 200 years.”  As much as anything, Thursday’s address was an attempt to reset the political clock back five years when there was broader bipartisan agreement over the need to recalibrate — especially on closing Guantánamo Bay.  That effort bogged down over objections, from Democrats as well as Republicans, over plans to relocate detainees to super-max prisons in the United States.  Such a plan is likely to encounter stiff, perhaps insurmountable opposition on Capitol Hill, but the president’s speech was initially well-received by critics on the left and right, including the man Obama defeated in 2008.  “There is much that I support in President Obama’s speech today,” Sen. John McCain (R-Ariz.) said in a statement. “Though I continue to have questions and concerns about specific details of how he plans to achieve the goals he laid out today, I believe there is common ground to work with the president to advance both our counterterrorism objectives and our highest values as a nation of laws.” 
