    Emails suggest the State Department was concerned about taking the blame. As the number of people handling the Benghazi talking points grew, the amount of information the document offered shrank.  Emails and documents released by the White House Wednesday reveal an editing process that valued caution over comprehensiveness as officials worked to remove language that would have assigned blame for the attack or suggested ways the incident could have been prevented. The release also showed that the CIA, and not the State Department, made the decision to scrub references to Al Qaeda, Al Qaeda-linked groups and prior terrorist attacks in the region.  But the newly public email chains suggest it was the State Department that was most concerned about taking the blame for the attack. State Department spokeswoman Victoria Nuland sought changes to the talking points that would shield the agency — then led by Secretary of State Hillary Clinton — from congressional accusations that it had failed to properly secure the post, given the unstable situation in that area.  ( DOCUMENT: White House records on Benghazi talking points)  At one point, Nuland even wrote to a chain of administration officials relaying her concern that the talking points could be used as a cudgel against the State Department.  Here’s how CIA Deputy Director Michael Morell, Nuland and the administration’s press officials determined what U.N. Ambassador Susan Rice and members of Congress would say to the media, starting with the Sept. 16 Sunday morning shows:  Friday, Sept. 14, 2:27 p.m.: The first draft of the Benghazi talking points are circulated by the CIA’s Office of Congressional Affairs. It includes language stating that “we do know that Islamic extremists with ties to al-Qa’ida participated in the attack.”  That first draft also cites “initial press reporting” that “linked the attack to Ansar al-Sharia,” an Islamic militia group based in Libya, and said the U.S. could not “rule out that individuals had previously surveilled the US facilities, also contributing to the efficacy of the attacks.”  ( Also on POLITICO: W.H. Benghazi documents point to CIA)  It describes the attacks as “spontaneously inspired by the protests at the US Embassy in Cairo and evolved into a direct assault against the US Consulate and subsequently its annex,” and noted that “on 10 September we warned of social media reports calling for a demonstration in front of the Embassy and that jihadists were threatening to break into the embassy.”  4:20 p.m.: Stephen Preston, the CIA’s general counsel, responds that U.S. officials should avoid making any statements that suggested specific groups were responsible for the attack: “In light of the criminal investigation, we are not to generate statements with assessments as to who did this, etc. — even internally, not to mention for public release.”  4:42 p.m.: In email traffic within the CIA, Morell scrubbed the talking points of the Al Qaeda reference, changing the language to read that the “crowd almost certainly was a mix of individuals from across many sectors of Libyan society. The investigation is on-going as to who is responsible. That being said, we do know that Islamic extremists participated in the violent demonstrations.”  That draft is subsequently shared with Tommy Vietor, then the White House national security spokesman, and Ben Rhodes, Obama’s deputy national security adviser.  (PHOTOS: 10 quotes about Hillary Clinton and Benghazi)  6:21 p.m.: Vietor adds the word “Cairo” in the bullet point that spoke of the Sept. 10 social media warnings to clarify that they were at the U.S. Embassy in Egypt, not in Libya.  6:41 p.m.: Shawn Turner, the spokesman for Director of National Intelligence James Clapper, softens the language around the social media warning to say “we notified Embassy Cairo of social media reports” calling for a demonstration at the embassy. 6:52 p.m.: Vietor, at the direction of John Brennan, then Obama’s chief counterterrorism adviser, changes language that said the crowd consisted of people from “Libyan society” to a bland pronouncement of “a mix of individuals.”  That bullet point now reads that “the investigation is on-going as to who is responsible for the violence, although the crowd almost certainly was a mix of individuals. We do know that Islamic extremists participated in the violent demonstrations.”  7:39 p.m.: Nuland, the State Department spokeswoman, says she harbors “serious concerns” that the talking points would have members of Congress “making assertions to the media that we ourselves are not making because we don’t want to prejudice the investigation.”  “The penultimate point could be abused by Members (of Congress) to beat the State Department for not paying attention to Agency warnings so why do we want to feed that either?” she wrote, reflecting the worry within the department at that moment. “Concerned…”  9:24 p.m.: The CIA provides Nuland a new draft of the talking points that removes the reference to Ansar al-Sharia and adds language that says “the wide availability of weapons and experienced fighters in Libya almost certainly contributed to the lethality of the attacks.”  Nuland says the draft fails to “resolve all my issues or those of my building leadership.”  9:34 p.m.: Rhodes finally weighs in, writing to Vietor, Nuland, Turner, Jake Sullivan at the State Department and other unnamed officials at the FBI, CIA and State that “there is a ton of wrong information getting out into the public domain from Congress and people are who not particularly informed.”  “There are significant policy and messaging ramifications that would flow from a hardened mis-impression,” he warns.  Late Friday night: In the most significant edits to the talking points, Morell by hand crosses out entire sections that speculate on who was responsible for the attack, the availability of weapons in Libya and previous attacks and threats in the country. This document did not come attached to a specific email, so it is unclear exactly what time it was sent, though it is dated Sept. 14.  Morell also removes language that referred to the Sept. 10 social media notifications of the demonstration in Cairo.  Sept. 15, 9:45 a.m.: The talking points have been whittled to three spare bullets, two of which stress the lack of available information.  The first says that the CIA’s belief is that “demonstrations in Benghazi were spontaneously inspired by the protests at the US Embassy in Cairo and evolved into a direct assault against the US Consulate and subsequently its annex.”  The second point says the “assessment may change as additional information is collected and analyzed as currently available information continues to be evaluated.”  The third point is that the “investigation is on-going, and the US Government is working with Libyan authorities to bring to justice those responsible for the deaths (of) US citizens.”  11:25 a.m.: Rhodes substitutes the words “diplomatic post” for “consulate” — the “stylistic” edit the White House had insisted was the lone change it made to the talking points.  This would be the final change to the talking points before it was forwarded to then-CIA Director David Petraeus for his approval.  2:27 p.m.: Petraeus expresses disappointment that the language was not more specific, and predicts that Maryland Rep. Dutch Ruppersberger, the ranking Democrat on the House Intelligence Committee, will not be satisfied by them.  “Frankly, I’d just as soon not use this,” Petraeus writes. “This is certainly not what Vice Chairman Ruppersberger was hoping to get for unclass (sic) use. Regardless, thx for the great work.”  CORRECTION: A previous version of this story misattributed who provided the draft of the talking points circulated at 9:24 p.m. Friday. It also misstated the time of the 11:25 a.m. message. 
