    Bachmann’s decision comes as she faces a growing swirl of investigations. Rep. Michele Bachmann (R-Minn.) — the tea-party firebrand facing investigations and a daunting reelection race — abruptly announced on Wednesday morning that she will not seek reelection to a fifth term.  Her move marked a spectacular fall for a congresswoman with a bull’s eye on her back every congressional cycle: Less than two years ago, she won the Iowa straw poll and was briefly regarded as a serious contender for the GOP presidential nomination.  Bachmann, 57, who took office in 2007, said in a video posted on her website: “My good friends: After a great deal of thought and deliberation, I have decided next year I will not seek a fifth congressional term to represent the wonderful people of the Sixth District of Minnesota. After serious consideration, I am confident that this is the right decision.”  ( PHOTOS: Michele Bachmann’s most controversial quotes)  The congresswoman added on the eight-and-a-half-minute video: “[T]he law limits anyone from serving as president of the United States for more than eight years. And in my opinion, well, eight years is also long enough for any individual to serve as a representative for a specific congressional district.”  With Bachmann’s departure, the tea party’s voice in Congress will dim. She is the movement’s third big-name figure in recent months to leave Congress — Jim DeMint of South Carolina resigned from the Senate in January to take over the Heritage Foundation. And in November, Florida Rep. Allen West, another conservative bomb thrower, lost reelection.  Ironically, the retirement may improve Republicans’ chances of holding Minnesota’s conservative 6th Congressional District, which broke for Mitt Romney by nearly 15 percentage points in 2012. Democrats had Bachmann at the top of their target list after she barely survived reelection last year. The Democrat who came close to defeating her, Jim Graves, was gearing up for a rematch.  ( Also on POLITICO: Carville on Bachmann: 'Sad day')  Bachmann’s decision comes as she faces a growing swirl of investigations into her campaign finances, with the The Federal Election Commission and the Office of Congressional Ethics opening investigations into whether her campaign concealed payments to an Iowa state senator who did work for her 2012 presidential bid. Last week, the FBI reportedly joined the inquiry.  In Graves, she was up against an opponent who came within 5,000 votes — or 1.2 percent points — of unseating her last November. Graves, a wealthy hotel company executive who poured $250,000 of his own funds into the 2012 contest, released a poll last week showing him with a narrow lead over the congresswoman.  The Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee, which provided Graves with little help in 2012, had indicated that it planned to get behind the challenger aggressively in Round Two. Though Bachmann would have had an enormous war chest, the defeat of West — another tea party hero with a national following and big money — showed that such figures are not invincible.  ( PHOTOS: Michele Bachmann’s career)  Potential Republican candidates for the seat include state Reps. Tim Sanders and Matt Dean, state Sen. Michelle Fischbach, and St. Cloud Mayor Dave Kleis.  In the video released Wednesday morning, Bachmann insisted that her decision to not seek reelection had nothing to do with the Graves challenge, nor from the investigations. Bachmann aides have repeatedly said the congresswoman has done nothing improper.  “Be assured: My decision was not in any way influenced by any concerns about my being reelected to Congress. … I have every confidence that if I ran, I would again defeat the individual who I defeated last year, who recently announced he is once again running. “And rest assured, this decision was not impacted in any way by the recent inquiries into the activities of my former presidential campaign or my former presidential staff. It was clearly understood that compliance with all rules and regulations was an absolute necessity for my presidential campaign. And I have no reason to believe that that was not the case. … God bless you, and God bless the United States of America.”  Bachmann had faced serious reelection contests before, even though she had the benefit of running in a suburban Twin Cities district that tilted conservative. In 2008, after telling MSNBC’s Chris Matthews that then-Democratic presidential candidate Barack Obama “may have anti-American views,” she defeated her Democratic foe by just 3 percentage points.  The congresswoman’s decision comes as a shock to Republican officials, many of whom thought she was taking serious steps to running for reelection. Early this month, Bachmann began airing TV ads highlighting her role in sponsoring legislation to repeal President Barack Obama’s health care law – an especially early point in the election season for a House member to begin running commercials.  And many of the Republicans saw Bachmann, a familiar face on the cable TV news circuit, making fewer headlines recently as she focused on holding local events in her district.  Bachmann’s outsized success with the conservative grassroots was not matched with equal prowess inside the Beltway. In the Capitol, the Minnesota Republican never proved herself a savvy legislative operator, or even a real factor in the rough and tumble of Congressional brawling. She drew her strength from her ability to grab headlines opposing President Barack Obama’s legislative agenda.  Her attendance at closed House Republican Conference strategy sessions has been sporadic over the years – at times, she was known to stand outside the gatherings on her cell phone, giving interviews. At one point during the 2012 presidential campaign, when the party was plotting delicate fiscal strategy, Bachmann was spotted outside on her cell phone, speaking on a radio show opposing her leadership.  Bachmann has had arguably two major Congressional victories – one inside the Capitol and one outside.  On Tuesday, Bachmann saw one of her longtime legislative pursuits come to fruition, when she helped break ground on the new St. Croix River Crossing – a bridge that connects Wisconsin to Minnesota. She and Sen. Amy Klobuchar (D-Minn.) championed legislation to spur the project, which critics described it as pork-barrel, stimulus spending.  In the Capitol, Speaker John Boehner (R-Ohio) named Bachmann to the elite Intelligence Committee, which oversees entities like the Central Intelligence Agency. But despite sitting on the Financial Services and Intelligence committees, she does not chair a subcommittee on either.  This Congress, Bachmann has introduced nine bills, four of which have attracted no co-sponsors. One would repeal Dodd-Frank, the 2010 law that sought to overhaul Wall Street regulation. Another would require the federal government to fly POW/MIA flags at federal buildings every day the U.S. flag is flown.  But Bachmann was the main sponsor of the GOP’s most recent effort to repeal the Affordable Care Act. That bill passed the House on May 16. 
