VideoThe Times’s Jonathan Weisman on which Democrats to watch as Eric Holder faces increasing criticism for his job performance as attorney general.CreditCredit... Kevin Lamarque/ReutersMay 29, 2013WASHINGTON — Attorney General Eric H. Holder Jr., a lightning rod of Republican attacks during President Obama’s first term, is now contending with a new round of criticism over the Justice Department’s campaign against leaks to the news media.This time it is the news media and even some Democrats who are upset with Mr. Holder, who in recent days has taken steps seemingly aimed at assuaging them. He endorsed the enactment of a “media shield” law and invited leaders of news organizations to meet with him Thursday to discuss tightening rules on warrants and subpoenas for reporters’ records as part of leak investigations.Even as Mr. Holder has sought to regain his footing, Republicans have resumed their criticism, accusing him of misleading Congress in testimony over whether the Justice Department has considered prosecuting journalists under the Espionage Act for publishing government secrets.In a letter Wednesday, the House Judiciary Committee chairman, Representative Robert W. Goodlatte of Virginia, and a Republican colleague, Representative Jim Sensenbrenner of Wisconsin, expressed “great concern” about Mr. Holder’s testimony before the committee this month, saying it “appeared to be at odds” with court documents that have come to light involving a warrant for e-mails of James Rosen, a Fox News reporter.The prospect of a new round of perjury accusations from Congress has underscored that the furor over the leak investigations might pose a new threat to Mr. Holder, who surprised many Democrats by choosing to stay on after Mr. Obama’s re-election. For now, Democrats on the House Judiciary Committee are standing by Mr. Holder, even though the ranking member, Representative John Conyers Jr. of Michigan, pronounced himself “deeply troubled” by some of the investigative tactics used in recent leak cases.“Certainly, it is fair to ask additional questions about the Rosen investigation, and any role the attorney general may have played in it, but I do not believe it credible to level charges that he may have intentionally misled the committee on this matter before we know the facts of the case in question,” Mr. Conyers said.In his only recent interview, Mr. Holder told The Daily Beast that the investigations obeyed existing laws and guidelines, but he also said the rules “need to be updated.” He called the furor “an opportunity for the department to consider how we strike the right balance between the interests of law enforcement and freedom of the press.” The Daily Beast article also paraphrased unnamed aides as saying Mr. Holder was “also beginning to feel a creeping sense of personal remorse.” Reid Weingarten, a lawyer who has been a friend of Mr. Holder’s for three decades, said Mr. Holder had discussed no such feelings with him. Rather, Mr. Weingarten said, the disclosure to Fox News of the existence of a rare intelligence source in North Korea was “a horrible leak and he was charged with the responsibility to get at it.” That raised what he said Mr. Holder described to him as a trade-off between press freedoms and the need to identify leakers — a problem for which there are no easy answers because it pits “two laudable goals” against each other. “He’s not immune from the criticism, but I think he sees this First Amendment-security conflict as almost impossibly difficult,” Mr. Weingarten said, adding: “He hasn’t confessed or cried to me, that’s for sure. What I sense in conversations with him is how horribly difficult the dilemma is when you have this situation. It’s important to get it right, and if we didn’t get it right — and that’s a big if — let’s button up the process now.”ImageCredit...Manuel Balce Ceneta/Associated PressMatthew Miller, a friend and former top aide to Mr. Holder, portrayed the attorney general’s proposal to tighten laws and guidelines on when news media records may be obtained as coming out of a realization that one cannot expect law enforcement officials to do anything less than what the rules permit when pursuing a particular case.Meanwhile, Mr. Holder has invited representatives from several major news organizations to discuss whether and how the Justice Department’s regulations for leak investigations should be modified. Some news organizations, including The New York Times, declined. “We will not be attending the session at D.O.J.,” said Jill Abramson, its executive editor. “It isn’t appropriate for us to attend an off-the-record meeting with the attorney general. Our Washington bureau is aggressively covering the department’s handling of leak investigations at this time. Evidently, there will be a future session with department officials on the substance of how the law should be applied in leak cases and I am hopeful that our counsel, David McCraw, will be able to participate.”However, Martin Baron, the executive editor of The Washington Post, said that while he would prefer the meeting be on the record, he would go “in order to represent our interests as journalists and to raise our concerns. I’ll also listen to what the attorney general has to say. I trust that our journalists will report on this as vigorously as they would any other subject.” A representative of The Associated Press said the executive editor, Kathleen Carroll, would attend only if the session was on the record. Mr. Holder at first appeared to sidestep the furor over leaks. It began on May 13 with a disclosure by The Associated Press that the Justice Department had obtained calling logs for its reporters’ phone lines in connection with a 2012 leak involving a foiled bomb plot in Yemen. The subpoena was controversial because the department did not provide any advance notice to The A.P., which would have allowed it to negotiate or challenge it in court.But Mr. Holder quickly revealed that he had recused himself from overseeing that investigation and so it was his deputy, James M. Cole, who had approved the subpoena.In testimony on May 15, Mr. Holder also distanced himself from the notion that reporters who write about national security secrets should be indicted under the Espionage Act, saying: “With regard to the potential prosecution of the press for the disclosure of material, that is not something that I’ve ever been involved in, heard of or would think would be a wise policy.”Since then, however, a 2010 search warrant for e-mails of Mr. Rosen, the Fox News reporter, came to light in connection with a leak investigation into a State Department analyst. An affidavit says there was probable cause to believe Mr. Rosen had violated the Espionage Act. Mr. Holder approved the warrant.Law enforcement officials said the affidavit included that language to invoke an exception to a law that otherwise bars search warrants for reporters’ work product, and noted that while the analyst accused of leaking, Stephen Kim, was indicted in August 2010, Mr. Rosen was not charged.On Wednesday, a Justice Department official said that Mr. Holder’s “testimony concerning the potential prosecution of the press was consistent with the underlying facts with respect to the investigation and ultimate prosecution of Mr. Kim.”