VideoPresident Obama announced his plans to nominate three candidates for the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit.CreditCredit...Christopher Gregory/The New York TimesJune 4, 2013WASHINGTON — President Obama’s announcement of three nominees to an important federal appeals court on Tuesday is adding fuel to a larger fight on Capitol Hill over whether the minority party in the Senate has too much power to thwart a president’s agenda.In a formal Rose Garden ceremony normally reserved for Supreme Court hopefuls and prominent cabinet nominees, Mr. Obama announced plans to fill, at the same time, all three vacancies on the Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit. Republicans quickly objected, saying that Mr. Obama and his Senate allies were trying to intimidate them into approving the nominees.The fight has major implications for Mr. Obama’s agenda and legacy, the judicial system and Capitol Hill politics. With these nominations, the White House is trying to install judges it hopes will be more ideologically sympathetic on a court that has overturned some important initiatives of the president’s first-term agenda on environmental, regulatory and labor issues. The court, typically considered the second-most important after the Supreme Court, has a fairly conservative makeup. And Mr. Obama failed to win confirmation of any nominee to it until last month, because both of his administration’s slowness to put new judges forward and of Republican efforts to block his appointmentsMore broadly, he and Senate Democrats hope to use the nominations to focus public attention on what they consider Republican obstruction of his choices for the cabinet and the courts, as well as of his legislative priorities. Exasperated by the constant threat of filibusters, Democrats appear to be edging closer to forcing a change to the chamber’s rules that would limit the minority party’s power to block and delay. The effort could culminate this summer or fall in a legislative collision.“This is not about principled opposition; it’s about partisan obstruction,” Mr. Obama said Tuesday, accusing Republicans of routinely blocking his nominees for partisan reasons. Republicans responded angrily to what they called a blatant attempt to steamroll opposition in Congress. Senator Mitch McConnell, the Republican leader, accused Senator Harry Reid, the majority leader, of betraying a commitment not to alter Senate rules.“There’s a culture of intimidation throughout the executive branch,” Mr. McConnell said after the president’s announcement. “There’s also a culture of intimidation here in the Senate.” The president named Cornelia T. L. Pillard, a law professor; Patricia Ann Millett, an appellate lawyer; and Robert L. Wilkins, a federal district judge, as his choices to fill the three open spots on the 11-member court. Two of Mr. Obama’s nominees have claims to bipartisan appeal that could make it more difficult for Republicans to attack them as unfit for the circuit court. Ms. Millett served in the solicitor general’s office for 11 years, under President Bill Clinton and President George W. Bush. Judge Wilkins worked as a public defender and a corporate defense lawyer before being confirmed without any Republican opposition by the Senate to the United States District Court for the District of Columbia.Ms. Pillard’s background may prove a bit more problematic. She served in the Clinton administration and has worked at the American Civil Liberties Union and the NAACP Legal Defense and Educational Fund, two well-known liberal organizations.Aides to Republican lawmakers will soon be digging through the backgrounds of the nominees in search of reasons to oppose them. But the individual backgrounds of the nominees may be less important than their role in setting off the broader power struggle in the Senate.ImageCredit...Christopher Gregory/The New York TimesMany Republicans favor a plan that would reduce the number of judges on the District of Columbia appellate court, which they say does not have a caseload large enough to justify 11 full-time positions. Democrats say that the number of cases is a crude and inaccurate way to measure the true workload of the court.Mr. Obama on Tuesday acknowledged that Democrats do not have a “perfect track record” when it comes to judicial nominees by Republican presidents, but he said his proposed judges had waited “three times longer” for confirmation than Mr. Bush’s did.White House officials said the president’s judicial nominees have waited, on average, 116 days from the time they are approved in the Senate Judiciary Committee to the time they receive a vote on the Senate floor. Mr. Bush’s judicial nominees in his first term waited, on average, 37 days to receive a floor vote, White House officials said.Republicans counter with a different statistic, saying that by this point in Mr. Bush’s second term, the Senate had confirmed only four of Mr. Bush’s judicial nominees. By contrast, they note, the current Senate has confirmed 22 of Mr. Obama’s nominees since the beginning of the year.“Based on that record, how can the president or Senate Democrats possibly complain?” Senator Charles E. Grassley of Iowa, the senior Republican on the Judiciary Committee, said recently in a speech on the floor.Statistics compiled by the Congressional Research Service show that delays in confirming judges have steadily increased for years. During Ronald Reagan’s presidency, almost 82 percent of what the study called “uncontroversial” district court nominees were confirmed in under 100 days. By Mr. Obama’s first term, just 1.9 percent were confirmed that quickly, and 55 percent waited 200 days or longer.Presidents are also taking longer to nominate judges in the first place. By the first year of his second term, it took Mr. Bush an average of 276 days to nominate a judge once a vacancy occurred; for Mr. Obama, it has taken an average of 391 days from vacancy to nomination.Mr. Obama has made most of his judicial nominations with little fanfare. But the Rose Garden performance for the television cameras on Tuesday kicked off an effort to highlight what Democrats call Republican obstructionism. Democrats are considering rewriting Senate rules so Republicans cannot require a supermajority of 60 votes for judicial or cabinet-level nominees, or both. Democrats are weighing their choices carefully, aware that changes would also apply to them if Republicans retook control of the Senate.It is not the first time a president and his allies have nominated several judges at once to pressure the other party. In May 2001, just months into his presidency, Mr. Bush held an East Room ceremony to announce 11 judicial nominations, seeking to put an early stamp on the nation’s courts and essentially daring Democrats in the Senate to block them.“There are, today, over a hundred vacancies on the federal courts, causing backlogs, frustration and delay of justice,” Mr. Bush said.Democrats repeatedly blocked Mr. Bush’s judicial nominees, including refusing to confirm his pick of Miguel Estrada, a conservative lawyer, to the District of Columbia circuit court. That led to a confrontation in 2005 in which Republicans threatened to change Senate rules to prevent filibusters of judicial nominees. A “gang” of seven Republican and seven Democratic senators agreed to a compromise that avoided filibusters and any rules changes.