WASHINGTON – Less than a day after signaling the White House task force on coronavirus would be disbanded, President Donald Trump said Wednesday the group will "continue on indefinitely" and shift focus to reopening the country and manufacturing vaccines.Trump's latest thinking on the task force, created in January to coordinate the response to the virus, came a day after Vice President Mike Pence and other officials said the group's work would be transferred to federal agencies as soon as this month. The idea drew fire from critics who said it was too soon to disband the group."I thought we could wind it down sooner," the president acknowledged Wednesday during an Oval Office event with nurses. "But I had no idea how popular the task force is until actually yesterday when I started talking about winding down."The president left the composition of the task force and its focus murky in a series of tweets Wednesday morning. Trump said he may remove some members of the group and add others, though he did not indicate whom he had in mind. At the White House, Trump said he would add two or three members by next week."The Task Force will continue on indefinitely with its focus on SAFETY & OPENING UP OUR COUNTRY AGAIN," Trump tweeted Wednesday. "The Task Force will also be very focused on Vaccines & Therapeutics. Thank you!"Relief money fraud:Feds arrest 2 men in first fraud case involving PPP loan program for small businesses hurt by coronavirusDuring a trip to Arizona on Tuesday, Trump linked discussions to disband the group with his broader desire to reopen the nation and recharge its economy. Winding down the group, he suggested, would signal a new phase in the government's response to the virus.   "I'm viewing our great citizens of this country to a certain extent and to a large extent as warriors. They're warriors," Trump said. "Will some people be affected badly? Yes. But we have to get our country open."Democrats and other critics blasted Trump's plan to reduce the scope of the task force Tuesday, given the threat that death tolls would rise as states reopen businesses and other parts of their economies. The virus has killed more than 71,000 Americans, according to Johns Hopkins University.Ruth Bader Ginsburg:Justice hospitalized for gallbladder condition and infectionThough the number of new daily cases has slowed, it remains high. "President Trump waves the white flag of surrender and winds down his ‘task force,' " said Rep. Lloyd Doggett, D-Texas, chairman of the House Ways and Means Health Subcommittee. "As the death toll soars, it is the task force that gets buried."Vermont Sen. Bernie Sanders, a former Democratic presidential candidate, slammed the decision as a "true American tragedy" and predicted that "thousands will unnecessarily die" because of Trump's "contempt for science."