    Top Republicans are rushing to blunt the growing support for Cornyn's plan. Sen. Marco Rubio initially praised a border security proposal from Sen. John Cornyn, helping to make it the leading choice of conservatives demanding tighter enforcement measures.  Now others in the Gang of Eight fear Cornyn’s plan could sink their entire immigration deal.  Sen. John McCain (R-Ariz.) is beginning to speak out forcefully against the Cornyn language, bombarding the Texas Republican with critical comments from the Senate floor. Sen. Lindsey Graham (R-S.C.) is lobbying other Republicans on potential compromises. And Rubio, although he said Wednesday that the Cornyn plan “dramatically improves the bill,” is working on a package that others in the Gang of Eight hope could emerge as an alternative.  ( PHOTOS: At a glance: The Senate immigration deal)  The fear of some bill proponents: the longer the Cornyn plan hangs out there, the more likely it will become a magnet for Republicans — and accepting anything short of it will be considered a sacrifice. If that happens, then the Gang of Eight won’t be able to get the large bipartisan majority that its leaders, including McCain and Sen. Chuck Schumer (D-N.Y.), are seeking.  The border security showdown is the first major challenge to the Senate’s bipartisan immigration overhaul since it hit the floor this week, dividing the GOP and testing the ability of the Gang of Eight to negotiate a solution that picks up key Republicans without alienating Democrats.  “It’s a poison pill,” McCain said of the Cornyn plan. “Hopefully we can have an alternative that satisfies some of the concerns without killing the bill. … It’s not possible for us to support his amendment as it is presently written because it is a poison pill.”  ( PHOTOS: 20 quotes on immigration reform)  But with no Gang-sanctioned alternative yet, a number of Republicans — including some viewed as swing votes — are gravitating toward the Cornyn plan. It would block undocumented immigrants from gaining green cards until the government meets certain border security metrics, which Democrats view as so subjective that they may never be reached.  There is grumbling among some Democrats that they’re in this bind because Rubio — a key Gang member — made border security an issue by saying it needed to be tightened in order to get 60 Senate votes. Then, the Florida Republican embraced the Cornyn plan when it was announced last week. And on Sean Hannity’s radio show Wednesday, Rubio described it as “an excellent place to start in terms of having that conversation.”  But when pressed by Hannity to say he wouldn’t back reform unless complete control of the border is guaranteed, Rubio hedged.  “The thing I’m trying to avoid is all that ultimatum language because I think it undermines what we’re trying to do,” he said. “I’m not here to blow anything up. I want to make this thing better.”  ( Also on POLITICO: Reid warns Republicans on border security)  Throughout the debate, Rubio has sought to publicly align himself with conservatives and keep his distance from the Gang of Eight, even as he continues to privately work with the group. The members have tolerated the seemingly-conflicting messages at times from Rubio because his continued involvement is critical to lining up GOP votes – and the Gang still truly believe that Rubio is committed to the bill and won’t agree to changes that gut the delicate compromise.  But the machinations on border security is sharpening the divide, at least publicly, between Rubio and the rest of the group. Rubio has consistently said that the Gang bill won’t be enacted, especially in the conservative GOP House, without changes to border security.  Democrats disagree that they must make significant concessions on the Gang agreement for a filibuster-proof majority, and now they are waiting for Rubio or other Republicans to step forward with a border plan that they can accept.  Rubio, in an interview with POLITICO this week, would not describe his work with with Sen. Tom Coburn (R-Okla.) and others as an “alternative” to the Cornyn plan.  “We certainly have ideas, and we’re sharing them with people, but if others want to take the lead on securing the border, that’s good,” Rubio said. “We’re in a game of addition. … The border security elements of the bill will have to be improved. The only issue is what is going to do that.”  Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid (D-Nev.) wanted to put the Cornyn plan up for a vote Wednesday hoping to kill it quickly and show undecided Republicans that it’s going nowhere. But Reid held back at the GOP’s request, according to two Senate Democratic leadership aides. A Cornyn spokesman said that wasn’t the case.  Instead, McCain and Schumer launched a coordinated attack from the floor.  In an exchange that spilled the Republican divide into public view, McCain claimed Cornyn’s proposal wouldn’t pay for the billions of dollars needed to add more than 6,000 border patrol and customs agents. Cornyn shot back that his plan would tap an $8.3 billion trust fund already established under the bill. McCain didn’t buy it.  “There is a finite amount of money authorized. If the senator takes money from one and adds money one place, it has to come from someplace else,” McCain said. “That’s simple first grade mathematics, and I think it’s incredible that the senator should stand there and say, “Yeah, we’re adding these thousands of personnel,” but yet, there’s no additional cost. That’s not possible.”  Schumer argued the Cornyn plan, which he described as a compilation of amendments that failed in the Judiciary Committee, would eat up all the money and leave nothing for drones, helicopters and other technology to secure the border. The proposal is a “nonstarter,” he said.  “Let’s move on,” Schumer said.  “What is this, the third day this bill has been on the floor?” Cornyn responded. “To say that we can’t touch it; we can’t change it because eight senators got together and decided what it should be, is preposterous.”  The challenge for the Gang of Eight is that key Republicans have already started to jump aboard Cornyn’s plan.  Sen. Mark Kirk (R-Ill.), a moderate whose “no” votes on the procedural motions came as a surprise, said adopting Cornyn’s proposal “opens the door” to him supporting immigration reform.  And Sen. Mike Johanns, another gettable Republican, signed onto Cornyn’s amendment as a co-sponsor. Johanns said after a luncheon with GOP senators Wednesday that Cornyn appeared to be gathering “pretty significant support” for his amendment. Cornyn’s 134-page plan rewrites the existing border security section of the Gang legislation and, among other requirements, implements a tougher set of conditions that would have to be met before newly legalized immigrants would be able to get green cards. For example, Cornyn wants one trigger to be a biometric exit system at air and sea ports of entry. The Gang’s bill includes a biometric system, but it is not a trigger.  “This, I believe, is a significant step forward in getting this bill done,” Johanns told POLITICO. “I can’t imagine why there would be a big roadblock to it.”  But other Republicans who are favorable toward reform have been rushing to work on an alternative to Cornyn’s plan.  Sen. Bob Corker (R-Tenn.) has been in talks with Graham and McCain on a border security measure. He declined to go into specifics on the proposal on Wednesday.  “Generally speaking, all of us are just trying to find that sweet spot that addresses the Democratic sensibilities and ours,” Corker said of his talks. “There are a lot of healthy conversations happening.”  Sen. John Hoeven (R-N.D.), who is also working on the alternative, said Wednesday that senators are batting around different proposals on the standards that would gauge the security of the border — which would serve as a trigger along the pathway to citizenship.  “We’re trying to road test ideas, get input and maybe come up with something that can be kind of a consensus-type approach,” Hoeven said.  Other Republicans viewed as potential votes in favor of the Gang bill, such as Sens. Saxby Chambliss of Georgia and Pat Toomey of Pennsylvania, said they were still reviewing Cornyn’s amendment.  The central question surrounding Cornyn is whether he would commit to the bill if the Senate adopted his plan. Democrats aren’t convinced that he’ll ever get there, so they’re reluctant to engage him too seriously.  But Sen. Jeff Flake (R-Ariz.), also a Gang member, said Cornyn told Republicans during a Senate Republican Conference lunch earlier this week that he would support the legislation if his amendment is adopted.  “He said that on a number of occasions, and I believe him,” Flake said Wednesday during a breakfast sponsored by The Christian Science Monitor.  A Cornyn spokesman confirmed in an email Wednesday that the senator would vote for it if his plan is adopted “as is” — something that Flake said isn’t likely to happen.  Manu Raju contributed to this report. 
