U.S.|Report Outlines Accusations of Misconduct by Diplomatshttps://www.nytimes.com/2013/06/12/us/report-outlines-accusations-of-misconduct-by-diplomats.htmlJune 11, 2013WASHINGTON — A former ambassador who oversaw an audit of the State Department’s Bureau of Diplomatic Security has outlined several cases of alleged misconduct by American diplomats and security agents as part of an inquiry into whether senior officials interfered with politically delicate investigations.The misconduct — which the State Department said had been investigated — included the solicitation of sex from prostitutes, possibly minors; the existence of an “underground drug ring” that supplied drugs to security officers in Baghdad; and an agent’s falsely claiming full pay while working fewer hours, according to a report by Larry M. Dinger, the former ambassador who oversaw the audit for the State Department’s inspector general.The report did not substantiate any of the accusations, and in some instances made clear that they were based on rumor or hearsay. “Sometimes the sources are one or more other agents who became aware of the case from colleagues in what, given cubicles, can be a collegial environment,” wrote Mr. Dinger, who until August 2011 served as chargé d’affaires in Myanmar, formerly known as Burma.The accusations nonetheless raised a flurry of questions about the management of the State Department under Hillary Rodham Clinton, who stepped down in February as secretary of state but who remains the focus of intense speculation over her political plans in 2016. Other cases involved members of Mrs. Clinton’s security detail who were accused of hiring prostitutes on trips to Russia and Colombia “despite obvious counterintelligence issues.”The allegations of misconduct were first reported by CBS News on Monday and amplified by The New York Post on Tuesday, and they provoked a second day of questioning at the State Department and the White House.“There’s a process in place for reviewing any sort of allegation of misconduct the likes of which you mentioned,” the White House press secretary, Jay Carney, said at a briefing Tuesday, adding, “We’re not going to prejudge anyone or anything before all the facts are determined.”The report cited allegations of sexual assaults by a security supervisor at the American Embassy in Beirut, Lebanon. In another case, an investigator for the Bureau of Diplomatic Security reported that he had determined that an ambassador in Europe had “routinely ditched his protective security detail” to solicit sex. In both cases, diplomatic security agents suggested that their investigations had been circumscribed or blocked by superiors.The State Department’s spokeswoman, Jen Psaki, said all accusations had been investigated but declined to discuss individual cases or whether those accused had been exonerated.The report became public as a result of a civil suit filed in 2011 by Richard P. Higbie, a diplomatic security agent who accused the State Department of blocking his career. His lawyers sought the department’s internal documents after Aurelia Fedenisn, a former investigator who worked on the inspector general’s report, complained that the final draft had been toned down.Damon Mathias, a lawyer for Mr. Higbie and Ms. Fedenisn, said Ms. Fedenisn became concerned that the report had underplayed the interference into investigations. 