    The White House is doubling down on the president’s past green-jobs rhetoric. President Barack Obama’s new climate initiative will impose deadlines for EPA to write rules throttling carbon dioxide emissions at U.S. power plants, part of a series of efforts that could hit the coal industry hard both at home and abroad — but also create jobs and spark the economy, the administration says.  Tuesday’s long-awaited roll-out at Georgetown University will lay out a three-part strategy to lessen U.S. greenhouse gas emissions, help lead international climate talks and protect the U.S. from the effects of climate change.  The plan is a blend of new and old.  ( Also on POLITICO: Experts' verdict: Obama's climate effort not enough)  It features updated versions of the president’s first-term emphasis on tightening vehicle emissions standards, fostering the development of “clean coal” technology and offering billions of dollars for green energy, as well as a renewed push to lead international climate talks. It will seek to push solar and wind energy on federal lands and subsidized housing, as well as encourage coal users to switch to natural gas. And it takes aim again at the oil and gas industry tax breaks that Obama has unsuccessfully urged Congress to kill.  The administration is nonetheless hoping for support from industry, something it succeeded in attracting for Obama’s first-term deal that dramatically tightened fuel efficiency limits for cars.  The plan says the White House aims to “encourage the development of a global market” for natural gas, as well as “continue to promote the safe and secure use of nuclear power worldwide.”  ( Also on POLITICO: Obama's race against time on climate)  And the White House is doubling down on the president’s past green-jobs rhetoric, saying that “these steps will also spark the sort of innovation that drives economic growth and creates good-paying jobs that can’t be shipped overseas; help modernize our power plants by equipping them with the latest technology … and move our economy towards cleaner, more efficient forms of energy that will cut our reliance on foreign oil.”  But by including efforts to help states and cities gird their roads, bridges, and shorelines against rising seas and other effects of climate change, the administration is making a tacit acknowledgment that it’s too late to prevent the damage altogether.  Even before Obama had a chance to give his speech, the president was drawing praise from environmental group but also complaints from some members of Congress that he was acting rashly — or too late.  “You can’t do something that is unattainable,” Democratic Sen. Joe Manchin, from coal-friendly West Virginia, told POLITICO on Monday. “It’s unreasonable. What they’re doing has never been done.”  But Sen. Bernie Sanders (I-Vt.) offered the opposite perspective when asked if this was a speech Obama should have given early in his first term. “If you’re asking me is he a little bit late in this, the answer is yes,” Sanders said.  The White House sought to heighten the historic import of the speech by noting it will take place on the steps of the university’s Old North building, where past presidential visitors included George Washington and Abraham Lincoln. But the centerpiece of Obama’s effort will be thoroughly modern: long-expected Environmental Protection Agency regulations targeting both new and existing power plants, which would have an especially big impact on those burning coal.  Obama will issue a presidential memorandum “directing the EPA to start the important work” of regulating carbon emissions from both new and existing coal plants, a senior administration official told reporters Monday. The more important of those two is the existing-plant rule, both because it could require costly retrofits and because those plants are the largest source of carbon dioxide emissions in the U.S., at around 40 percent.  Obama’s memo will specifically direct EPA to issue a draft rule for existing plants by next June, finish a rule by June 2015 and then work with states to implement the rule.  He will also direct EPA to propose a new rule for future power plants by September, a White House official said.  EPA had already proposed a draft rule for future plants but missed an April deadline for finishing it, prompting several states and cities to threaten lawsuits. The delay provoked speculation that the agency would make major changes in the rule, perhaps relaxing some features in hopes of protecting it from court challenges. The administration says it intends to reach out to affected parties as it writes the power plant rules, especially the one for existing plants. That means it won’t be a simple process.  “The point here is that we are beginning a process and that process will involve a very aggressive set of stakeholder conversations” with states, utilities, labor unions, the administration official said. That process “will allow us to develop a rule that provided commonsense rules of the road, that does have industry support” and would provide a “commonsense, timely transition to a new energy economy,” the official said.  The timeline reflects the reality that administration officials will need to not just get through the initial regulatory hurdles but to also shore up the rules against legal scrutiny.  “We knew that we have to get to work quickly to not only to propose but ultimately to finalize a rule,” the administration official said.  Another senior official said the administration will take state efforts on reducing carbon into account, granting them flexibility and using a “wide range of energy sources and technologies.”  On the global front, Obama will call for an end to U.S. government support for public financing of new coal plants overseas unless they include technologies to capture and store their carbon emissions. That could be a blow to U.S. coal producers that have increasingly looked to exports as a source of revenue.  Exceptions would be made to the “poorest nations where no other alternative exists,” a senior administration official said.  None of Obama’s plan involves help from a divided Congress.  “All the core components of the plan you have heard today rely solely on existing authority,” the senior administration official said.  Obama won’t mention his upcoming decision on the Keystone XL oil pipeline, which climate activists say will also be instrumental in determining his legacy. Referencing the review of Keystone still underway at the State Department, an administration official said, “The bottom line is this proposal is not ready for a decision.”  Besides the EPA action on power plants, the administration will also:  Create a “comprehensive strategy” to reduce other greenhouse gases – including hydrofluorocarbons used in refrigerators and air conditioners, and methane from sources like agriculture and natural gas production — and to protect forests and other critical landscapes. Obama and Chinese President Xi Jinping earlier this month agreed to work to reduce HFCs under the umbrella of the Montreal Protocol treaty, which was created to repair the ozone layer.  Announce a goal of approving another 10,000 megawatts of renewable energy on public lands by 2020, matching a goal met during Obama’s first term. And federal agencies will aim to reach 100 megawatts of installed renewable capacity in federally subsidized housing by 2020.  Announce $8 billion in new loan authority for “advanced fossil energy technologies” and direct EPA and the Transportation Department to work on setting the next round of post-model-year 2018 fuel efficiency standards for heavy-duty vehicles. The administration finalized standards for model years 2014 through 2018 in his first term.  Look to issue held-up energy efficiency standards for appliances and federal buildings.  “Work actively to secure agreements” of other countries and multinational development banks to set lower tariffs and reduce other market barriers for the free trade of environmental goods and services. The goal is to go beyond the 54 environmental goods the U.S. and the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation have agreed to help.   Obama will also tell federal agencies to ensure that new roads and buildings constructed with taxpayer dollars are built to withstand flood and sea-level risks associated with climate change. The administration will also use technical assistance, grants and other means to help states and local communities “to be built stronger and smarter,” an administration official said.  That includes issuing “climate preparedness tools” and making “extensive” climate data accessible to the public.  Darren Samuelsohn and Erica Martinson contributed to this story. 
