    Alexander said on Capitol Hill that the two roles shouldn’t be divorced. | John Shinkle/POLITICO Controversial surveillance practices that spilled into public view through a series of dramatic leaks last week have helped to avert “dozens of terrorist events” in recent years, National Security Agency Director Keith Alexander told a Senate committee Wednesday.  However, the longer the NSA director spoke before the Senate Appropriations Committee, the less clear it became just which surveillance programs he was crediting for those successes.  His answer came in response to a question from Sen. Patrick Leahy (D-Vt.) about call-tracking surveillance conducted under Patriot Act Section 215.  ( PHOTOS: Pols, pundits weigh in on NSA report)  Alexander said it was difficult to segregate information obtained under that provision from another practice disclosed by leak last week: a system that gathers bulk data from internet providers, e-mail services and social media sites. That system is aimed at foreigners outside the United States, though it sometimes data from Americans or foreigners on U.S. soil is swept in as well.  “These authorities complement each other. The reality is, they work together,” said Alexander.  It was also not clear whether Alexander was attributing the prevention of dozens of terrorist events to the phone-call tracking program or to the use of Section 215 more generally. Beyond the mass collection of phone records revealed last week, that provision can be used to acquire a variety of business records.  “Clearly, this authority is being used for something more than phone records,” Sen. Dick Durbin (D-Ill.) said.  However, Alexander made it clear there are limits to the NSA’s surveillance  Sen. Susan Collins (R-Maine) asked whether it was true that the NSA had the ability to tap into Americans’ phone calls and electronic communications.  “False. I know of no way to do that,” Alexander responded.  The NSA chief, who is also a four-star Army general who oversees the U.S. Cyber Command, said he is pressing to declassify information on how often the information has been useful. “I’m pushing for that,” he said. “We do want to get this right and it has to be vetted across the community so what we give you, you know, is accurate.”  Leahy complained that the intelligence community has been dismissive of past congressional efforts to rein in the practices.  The “intelligence community has told us we obviously don’t have the ability as simple senators to know things as well as you do,” Leahy said, paraphrasing what he’s been told about NSA’s programs as: “Congress shouldn’t tinker with it at all. We should simply trust you.”  The Senate hearing was called to address efforts to protect Americans from cyber attacks, but it took less than an hour for senators to turn their focus to the question of government surveillance.  At the outset of the session, Senate Appropriations Committee Chairwoman Barbara Mikulski (D-Md.) encouraged her colleagues to put off questions about the hot surveillance issues to other hearings to take place in the future. Multiple times she interrupted their questions of Alexander about domestic surveillance to plead with them to put off questions on the phone records programs.  “In the last several days, many intelligence issues have been in the press…I understand that these are issues that are very much on the public’s mind and members of the Senate,” Mikulski said. “That’s not today. That’s for another day.”  However, Mikulski was clearly sensitive to suggestions she was trying to steer the hearing away from the surveillance issues that have dominated the news in recent days. She publicly took exception to a BuzzFeed reporter’s tweet saying Mikulski was “trying hard” to keep other senators from delving into the data mining issue  ”There is no attempt here to muzzle — stifle any senator from asking any line of question,” Mikulski insisted.  While he wasn’t immediately asked about the revelations of phone-call tracking and Web surveillance aimed at foreigners, Alexander used part of his opening statement to defend his workforce as respectful of privacy. “They do this lawfully. They take compliance, oversight, protecting civil liberties and privacy and the security of this nation to their heart every day,” Alexander said. “I could not be more proud of the men and women of NSA and Cyber Command.”  Some senators zeroed in on the mechanics of the program: specifically, the question of why data on all U.S. calls would needed to be collected.  Durbin asked why, if they were interested in a single individual in Chicago, all 312 area code phone numbers would need to be accrued, saying that practice “defied logic.”  And Sen. Mike Johanns (R-Neb.) wondered if the NSA program would lead to a telephone “record search for all of Omaha.”  Alexander responded that having a full history of calls was necessary to be able to research potential connections to phone numbers of suspected terrorists.  “We can take that number and go backwards in time and see who he was talking to,” Alexander said. That information, he added, would be passed along to the FBI if useful.  The NSA chief also warned senators that the recent round of leaks will have a serious impact.  “Great harm has already been done by opening this is up and the consequence, I believe is our security has already been jeopardized,” the general said, adding that the United States and its allies “will no longer be as safe as we were two weeks ago.”  Now that the existence of the programs has been revealed, said Alexander, he favors declassifying more information about them in order to assuage public concerns — but he does not favor making the complete details of all data-gathering programs freely available.  “There is water, broken glass and everything else on the floor. We now can look at that, [but] if we tell the terrorists every way that we’re going to track them they will get through and Americans will die,” he said. “I would rather take a public beating and people think I’m hiding something than to jeopardize the security of this country.”  Sen. Jon Tester (D-Mont.) expressed outrage that the man who has admitted to the leaks, 29-year-old NSA contractor Edward Snowden, had access to wide array of top-secret information while working as a computer administrator. Tester noted that after the massive leak to WikiLeaks several years ago, the federal government supposedly moved to put stricter limits on access to secrets.  “Whatever one thinks of Edward Snowden, it looks to me like we’ve also got a big problem that is internal, not external,” the senator said, questioning the current focus on cyberattacks.  “The president has requested $13 billion in cyber spending for FY14. And yet a contractor, not even somebody who’s accountable to your chain of command or anyone else in the government, is able to get his hands on a copy of a FISA court order allowing the collection of metadata from Verizon. How on earth does this happen?” Tester asked. “And why does a contractor have access to information that we’re spending $13 billion to prevent outsiders from getting their hands on?”  Alexander echoed the point. “That’s one of the grave concerns we both have,” Alexander replied. He said the basic computer work at NSA “was outsourced about 14 years ago.”  “We have system administrators who are contractors, working and running our networks. They don’t have total visibility of the network, but they get key parts to it,” the general added. “This individual was a system administration with access to key parts of the network. We’ve got to address that….It’s something that we’ve got to fix.”  Under questioning from Tester, Alexander said he wasn’t prepared to declare “yet” that the work should be done by government employees. “There are good contractors out there that are doing a good job,” he said.  Alexander’s public appearance was sandwiched between a series of classified Senate briefings. He briefed Senate Intelligence Committee members on Tuesday on the surveillance issue, and is set to hold a classified briefing open to all senators on Thursday. In addition, Wednesday’s hearing recessed in public only to reconvene in a secret session later in the afternoon. 
