    
Boeing’s 777 has a solid safety record, with just two big incidents since 1995. Federal investigators have a lot to look at as they try to puzzle out the reason for Saturday’s crash-landing of an Asiana Airlines Boeing 777 in San Francisco.  The National Transportation Safety Board is following its usual protocol of being cautious with doling out information, and early indications point to some sort of pilot error. But the accident presents several obvious areas of interest for investigators. Among them:  • The plane’s approach: Numerous news accounts and witness reports suggest the plane came in for a landing short of the runway, way too low and with its nose pitched up too high. Early indications suggest this odd angle and placement contributed to the tail striking the airport’s seawall, probably precipitating the crash and breakup of the plane. The NTSB will examine whether this was due to pilot error or the result of some mechanical failure.  • The airport: Glide Path, a navigation system that aids pilots as they land their planes, had been turned off due to maintenance work at the time of the crash. But the Glide Path helper is far from essential to making a safe landing, and is primarily used to help with landing in bad weather.  ( PHOTOS: San Francisco plane crash)  The weather at the airport Saturday was clear enough to conduct flights without instrumentation, and a system of lights that helps pilots who are landing by sight was functioning.  NTSB Chairwoman Debbie Hersman told CNN this morning that “there are a number of other tools available to the pilots, some less sophisticated like the lights, the precision approach lights that … show you if you are too high or too low coming in, but also some things that are more technologically advanced, like things on this airplane that can give you GPS information.”  • The plane: Boeing’s 777 has a solid safety record, with just two major incidents since it was placed into service in 1995 — the one on Saturday, plus another involving a crash landing. In January 2008 a British Airways flight from China landed hard about 1,000 feet short of the runway at Heathrow Airport in London, injuring 47 people.  ( Also on POLITICO: NTSB chairwoman: 'Striking' damage to Flight 214)  An NTSB investigation into the Heathrow incident revealed that ice pellets had formed in the fuel, clogging the fuel-oil heat exchanger and blocking fuel from reaching the plane’s engines. The Rolls-Royce engines used on that plane were later redesigned. But the Asiana plane involved in Saturday’s crash was equipped with a Pratt and Whitney engine that was not included in the NTSB’s previous recommendations on engine icing.  • The airline: As investigators comb over potential root causes, they will be looking into whether the plane had maintenance or repairs recently that could have contributed to some mechanical problem. They will also probably review the airline’s training and maintenance regime, although U.S. regulators won’t have the authority to mandate changes to South Korea’s aviation regulations.  • The response: Almost as important as the cause of the crash is assessing reaction of first responders in the immediate aftermath of the crash. The NTSB will evaluate the adequacy of communications and equipment, response times, and whether passengers were evacuated and triaged quickly and effectively.  ( Also on POLITICO: Navigation system at SFO had been turned off before crash)  A team of NTSB investigators is on the ground in San Francisco and beginning a wide-ranging probe that will examine everything from issues related to pilot fatigue to potential aircraft malfunctions to any problems at the airport itself.  The airplane’s flight data recorders, located in the rear of the 777 where much of the initial damage occurred, were recovered and have been sent to Washington, D.C., for analysis. Hersman told CNN this morning that the damage to the aircraft was “striking.” “We’re going to have to corroborate a lot of information: the radar data, the ATC information and the flight data recorder parameters and also interview the pilots,” she said.  Mark Rosenker, former chairman of the NTSB, said he is optimistic that a cause can be found, in large part because the crash appears mostly to have been contained over land.  “They’re going to find out what happend here,” he said. “There’s a lot of material there, it’s not like we have to go digging in the ocean. The pilots are alive, they will be interviewed.”  There were also several other planes waiting to take off whose pilots may have been in a good position to witness all or some of the crash, Rosenker noted.  “The kind of view you’ll get from the cockpit and assessment you’ll get from professional pilots will be extremely helpful,” he said.  Nothing is certain so soon after the accident, and the NTSB is likely to take at least a year and maybe even longer before it issues its final report on the accident.  Former NTSB investigator Greg Feith, who led the “go team” from 1993 to 2001, told NBC’s “Nightly News” that pilot fatigue may be a factor.  “One of the things they’re going to be looking at, of course, is the pilot operation. Were they scheduled to land on one runway and then shifted to another runway. This is a long flight. Pilot fatigue is also going to be an issue that the NTSB is going to look at,” he said.  He also said it did not appear that the crew had sounded any alarms or declared an emergency prior to the crash. That suggests the plane was operating properly, and that its too-close, tail-down angle may not have been due to compensating for some mechanical issue.  “Given the fact that there were no distress calls … typically with two pilots, you’re going to be getting a radio call. It appears that this airplane, that this crew didn’t have any issues and that when they were landing that airplane, they got into a high-sink rate and that they struck that tail onto that seawall before actually getting to pavement,” Feith said.  Rosenker cautioned against any rush to judgment about a root cause and urged allowing the NTSB to do its work.  “You can’t be shooting from the hip, you can’t be immediately saying, ‘I know what happened here.’ Anybody who does that doesn’t know what he’s talking about.”  He also praised the flight attendants on board, saying “you have to give tremendous kudos” to them for managing to get so many people off of a burning, crippled plane.  Yoon Young-doo, Asiana’s president, said Sunday that “I am bowing my head and extending my deep apology” to the crash victims, and said the airplane was carrying four pilots rotating in two-person shifts for the long flight. Yoon called the pilots “skilled,” and said three of them had more than 10,000 hours of flight time each, with the fourth approaching that figure.  He dismissed suggestions that the crash was due to a pilot misjudgment, and said mechanical problems have “yet to be confirmed.”  The NTSB has a briefing scheduled later this afternoon in San Francisco.  Scott Wong contributed to this report. 
