    
Comey was confirmed as FBI director Monday by a Senate vote of 93-1. | AP Photo In a letter to new FBI Director James Comey, several Republican members of Congress called the Obama administration’s investigation of the 2012 Benghazi attack “unacceptable” and encouraged an “aggressive” investigation.  “It has been more than 10 months since the attacks,” a copy of the letter, obtained by POLITICO, states. “We appear to be no closer to knowing who was responsible today than we were in the early weeks following the attack. This is simply unacceptable.”  Sen. Lindsey Graham (R-S.C.) and Rep. Jason Chaffetz (R-Utah) initiated the letter, and have both been outspoken in their criticism of the administration over its handling of the Benghazi attack. The letter was also signed by GOP Sens. Kelly Ayotte of New Hampshire, Ron Johnson of Wisconsin and John McCain of Arizona, as well as Reps. Trey Gowdy of South Carolina, Darrell Issa of California and Jim Jordan of Ohio.  ( PHOTOS: 10 quotes about Hillary Clinton and Benghazi)  “Rumors continue to swirl about the whereabouts of suspects involved in the attack,” the GOP lawmakers wrote. “The FBI continues to add pictures of potential assailants to its website and asks the Libyan people to assist with identifying the alleged perpetrators. We struggle to understand why we don’t know more about those who attacked two U.S. compounds and murdered four brave Americans.”  Comey was confirmed as FBI director Monday by a Senate vote of 93-1. The letter was sent to Comey Wednesday afternoon, a spokesperson from Chaffetz’s office told POLITICO.  “We encourage you to be aggressive in your investigation to properly hold accountable those who attacked our compounds in Benghazi. We owe the families of those killed, and the people of this nation, answers to who was responsible and ensure they are held accountable,” the letter reads. “We ask that you provide a status report on the investigation within 30 days of the date of being sworn in as the Director.” 
