    Eric Cantor 'messed up,' said one farm-state Republican. 'This is face saving.' Rolling the dice, House Republicans pushed ahead toward floor votes Thursday on a pared-back farm bill that strips out nutrition programs to appease conservatives and reduces the net 10-year costs to about $195.6 billion.  Behind the scenes, the GOP worked relentlessly to line up the last of 218 votes to avoid a repeat of last month’s embarrassing collapse. By a 223-195 margin the bill survived a first procedural test. But the whole strategy remained a political high-wire act uniting Democrats in opposition even as it left the agriculture community badly split.  The opening debate was emotionally charged with members of the Congressional Black Caucus lining up in a fury and Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi (D-Calif.) warning: “This passes a threshold we should never go past.”  ( Also on POLITICO: Obama threatens veto on farm bill)  House Rules Committee Chairman Pete Sessions (R-Texas) insisted that the goal was simply to “bifurcate” the legislation and get one piece — most relevant to farmers — to conference with the Senate. But he was met with a blast from Rep, Jim McGovern (D-Mass.), who said backroom deals had been made to “gut” the nutrition title in the months ahead.  Powerful cotton, rice, peanut and sugar cane interests were working with the GOP to round up votes. But the two leading agriculture groups — the American Farm Bureau Federation and National Farmers Union — came out strongly against the GOP strategy, which breaks with nearly a half-century of practice in farm bills.  A fresh 608-page text was filed only Wednesday evening, minus Title IV covering nutrition programs including food stamps and local food banks. Amendments adopted in last month’s farm debate are wrapped into the new measure. But as reported by the Rules panel, the bill will now be protected from further changes under expedited proceedings on the House floor.  At the same time, there are two significant revisions to supplant decades-old commodity price and production provisions for grains, upland cotton and milk, for example.  Dating back to 1938 and 1949, these have been a “permanent law” backstop of sorts for farm bills and source of political leverage for commodity groups. But they are largely impractical today and the new commodity title will now take their place as the new permanent law going forward.  On the surface, this is a change advocated by conservatives. But the full impact on different sectors was still being sorted out, and it appears sugar, cotton and rice stand to gain potentially.  “We are quite concerned that without a workable nutrition title, it will prove to be nearly impossible to adopt a bill that can be successfully conferenced with the Senate’s version,” said Farm Bureau President Bob Stallman in a letter Thursday morning urging “no” votes by the House on the rule and bill. Stallman also warned that “to replace permanent law governing agricultural programs without hearing from so much as a single witness on what that law should be replaced with is not how good policy is developed.”  Altogether, it made for an extraordinary political spectacle — and one that led many agriculture lobbyists to keep their heads down.  “If you want to make a cow patty stink, turn it over,” one veteran told POLITICO. “There’s so much kindling around here, I don’t want to strike a match.”  Driving the legislative train was Majority Leader Eric Cantor (R-Va.), who had a major role in the collapse of the farm bill last month and hopes to recover now by dividing the package into two parts to appease conservatives.  Speaker John Boehner (R-Ohio) also stepped up his involvement, meeting with wavering members. And in a conference call Wednesday with more than two dozen farm groups, Boehner’s chief of staff Mike Sommers bluntly warned that this could be their last chance at getting a farm bill this year.  The talking points used by Sommers are revealing of the mind-set behind the Republican strategy.  Sommers said the leadership was committed to getting a farm bill, but after the collapse of the measure in June, the GOP had only two choices — moving to the right or left. “We made the assessment that taking it to the left wouldn’t work. … So instead, we are splitting the bill,” he said. “We will act on passage of the farm portions first and then attempt to pass the [food stamp] portions. I know this isn’t ideal, but it is the only way I believe we get a farm bill. So the options to me are clear — pass the farm-only package or no farm bill. “  “The former gives you a shot at a conference report and one more opportunity to pass a bill in the House with the traditional coalition. The latter leads to no bill. It isn’t pretty, but it is the only way forward.”  Nonetheless, the two-bill strategy is itself very risky.  The goal is to placate the right, upset with food stamp spending. But it has infuriated many Democrats even as there is no guarantee that outside conservative groups will relent in their attacks on farm subsidies.  Republicans lost 62 of their own in the first round of the farm debate last month. They would have to hold their losses to about 15 to succeed now.  Democrats would also argue that Sommers’s talking points skipped over options that could yet have attracted more bipartisan support.  “I still believe splitting the farm bill is a mistake in the long run,” said Rep. Collin Peterson (D-Minn.). “They are ignoring the advice of most of the groups affected by the bill, and I see no clear path to getting a bill passed by the House and Senate and signed by the president.”  In fact, Peterson, the ranking Democrat on the House Agriculture Committee, has said he could provide 45 Democratic votes if only the GOP would strip out a far-reaching food stamp amendment that had been a personal cause for Cantor — and one factor in the collapse of the bill in June.  Privately, some Republicans themselves say the two-bill strategy is a way for Cantor to avoid having to make that concession. “Eric messed up,” said one farm-state Republican. “This is face saving.”  The biggest question mark is the long-term impact on the nutrition title and food stamps, left behind for the moment.  Agriculture Chairman Frank Lucas (R-Okla.) told the Rules panel that he is committed to moving a nutrition title this summer or early fall. But Rep. Louise Slaughter (D-N.Y.) said the process was “perfectly dreadful” and “an earthquake” to break up the farm bill in this manner.  “I trust you. …I know you are a straight-shooter,” McGovern told Lucas. “But given what I heard on the House floor during the farm debate … I don’t have a lot of trust in the people that run this place right now, especially in regard to Title IV [nutrition].”  As a practical matter, food stamps can continue to be funded in any case as part of the annual appropriations process for the Agriculture Department. And much as splitting the farm bill may placate some conservatives, Republicans are also surrendering the leverage that they had to get Democrats to accept some reforms and savings in the program.  The initial House bill reported by Lucas and Peterson had claimed close to $20.5 billion in 10-year savings from food stamps. That will all be in serious jeopardy now given the new two-bill strategy. 
