Politics|Obama to Leave Hawaiian Vacation Early to Work on Fiscal Dealhttps://www.nytimes.com/2012/12/26/us/politics/obama-returning-to-washington-to-seek-fiscal-deal.htmlObama to Leave Hawaiian Vacation Early to Work on Fiscal DealDec. 25, 2012KAILUA, Hawaii — President Obama is planning to cut his Christmas vacation short and return to Washington to make a last-ditch push for a compromise on a tax and spending dispute that remains stubbornly unresolved.The White House said Tuesday that the president would leave Wednesday night. His family, however, will stay behind in Hawaii.Meanwhile, both chambers of Congress will come back from their holiday hiatus on Thursday and return to work. While there are growing signs that some members of both parties are prepared to accept a deal that raises taxes on people at the highest income levels, there is considerable distance between Republicans and Democrats and no guarantee that an agreement could pass. The president and Congress left Washington late last week after House Republicans rejected a plan that would have left tax rates in place for all but those with incomes above $1 million.Mr. Obama has since called for a less ambitious approach to avoid the “fiscal cliff” on Jan. 1, when a series of automatic budget cuts and tax increases will go into effect if Congress and the White House cannot come up with another course of action.The White House has been seeking a resolution through talks with Senate Democrats, who control the chamber and have gained the tacit support of some Republican colleagues. But the Senate Republican leader, Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, has given no indication that his members would not seek to block a deal that includes tax increases.The main obstacle remains the Republican-led House, where a bloc of conservatives has ruled out any tax increases whatsoever.Over the last four days, Mr. Obama has had a placid and uneventful vacation of golfing, hiking and exercising on a military base here on the island of Oahu, where he was raised and usually spends the holidays.But Tuesday was likely to be his last day of solitude for a while. With a fiscal deal still out of reach, the president can ill afford the public relations problems that would arise from being on vacation while the country heads uncertainly toward a deadline that could have a serious impact on the financial markets and the economy.On Tuesday, the Obamas had a quiet morning of opening presents and singing Christmas carols at their vacation house here on the southeastern tip of Oahu. Mr. Obama hit the gym around 10 a.m. Then in the afternoon, he and Michelle Obama made the five-minute trip down the road to the Marine Corps base where he thanked service members and their families and posed for pictures.“So many of you make sacrifices day in and day out on behalf of our freedom,” he told a mess hall filled with several hundred people. “Not only do those in uniform make sacrifices, but I think everybody here understands the sacrifices that families make each and every day as well.” 