    Cruz and his allies have begun to muddy their own narrative. | M.Scott Mahaskey/POLITICO Ted Cruz and his allies are fighting a battle they will almost certainly lose in the Senate this week.  The freshman Republican from Texas, along with Sen. Mike Lee (R-Utah) and some vocal House conservatives, pushed House Republican leaders to pass a bill Friday that funds the government but denies money for Obamacare. That defunding provision is a nonstarter with President Barack Obama and Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid (D-Nev.), who says it’s “dead” in his chamber.  After months of fiery rhetoric, Cruz and his allies are scrambling to salvage their strategy. For starters, Cruz wants Reid to make an exception to Senate rules that would make it easier for Republicans to block Obamacare funding.  ( PHOTOS: Key quotes from Ted Cruz)  Reid will begin Monday by setting up a procedural vote on the House bill that will require 60 votes to pass. He then plans to hold a simple majority vote on stripping the Obamacare defunding measure and send a clean continuing resolution back to the House, possibly just a day or two before a potential shutdown.  Cruz is asking Reid to subject the vote on removing the Obamacare provision to a 60-vote threshold instead of “abusing his power.” That sort of agreement would require the consent of all 100 senators, which isn’t going to happen.  “The Senate, generally on controversial votes, we work out an agreement for it to be subject to a 60-vote threshold,” Cruz said on “Fox News Sunday.” Otherwise “the majority is going to run the minority over with a train.”  ( WATCH: 12 significant statements on Obamacare)  Reid’s parliamentary strategy is “basic Senate procedure,” said a Democratic leadership aide on Sunday. “No one is taking him seriously on this.”  Failing Cruz’s long-shot request, he and Lee want Senate Republicans to oppose a procedural vote on the $986 billion House-passed spending bill so that Reid can’t ultimately send a clean CR back to the House.This tactic has been repeatedly panned by Republicans like Bob Corker of Tennessee and Richard Burr of North Carolina because it would be a vote against advancing a bill that defunds Obamacare.  “I can’t imagine any Republican senator not voting to invoke cloture on a bill they support,” said Sen. Bob Corker (R-Tenn.), who has been among the loudest GOP critics of Cruz’s approach.  But that’s precisely the opposite of what Cruz and the party’s right-most flank are arguing, further confusing the Republican narrative.  ( Also on POLITICO: Cruz: Cloture equals Obamacare)  “A vote on the motion to invoke cloture is a vote to undermine the House-passed bill,” said Heritage Action in an alert this weekend, notifying senators they will use their votes in annual scorecards.  Former Alaska governor and GOP vice presidential candidate Sarah Palin further stoked Republican turmoil over the weekend by writing on Breitbart News that, “It’s time for the Senate to put itself on Cruz Control” and hinting she may endorse the primary opponents of those who defy her.  “A little reminder to Republican senators up for re-election in 2014: Moose season ends soon, allowing more time on one’s hands. So, we’ll be watching your votes very carefully this week,” Palin wrote.  ( Also on POLITICO: Cruz's block-the-vote strategy)  The wild cards are Senate Minority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-Ky.) and GOP Whip John Cornyn of Texas. Both are up for reelection in 2014 and haven’t indicated whether they will encourage Cruz or work against him.  Reid and McConnell did not communicate over the weekend about the legislation, but Democratic leadership hopes McConnell and his lieutenant will beg their members away from blocking consideration of the funding resolution. If the legislation is stymied in the Senate, the chances of a shutdown vastly increase. “The question is whether the Senate is under Cruz control. I hope they’re not. I’ve appealed to some of the more sensible Republicans in their caucus that they have to step up. I don’t hear it from McConnell, I don’t hear it from Cornyn,” Majority Whip Dick Durbin (D-Ill.) said in an interview. “We’ll just have to hear it from some members of their caucus if we can avoid this national disaster.”  Privately, several Republican aides believe Cruz’s strategy to prevent Reid from sending a clean CR back to the House will fail. In particular, the 14 Republicans who serve on the powerful Appropriations Committee will have a difficult time endorsing an approach that could lead to a government shutdown.  Cruz said firmly Sunday that he believes the Senate GOP will eventually unite to tank the spending bill.  “A vote for cloture is a vote for Obamacare,” Cruz said. “Senate Republicans are going to stand side by side with Speaker Boehner and House Republicans, listening to the people and stopping this trainwreck that is Obamacare.”  If Cruz were to bring down the CR in the Senate, the spotlight would return to the House with the shutdown deadline looming ever closer. This is not what House members envisioned when they passed a Cruz-prescribed bill defunding Obamacare.  “Multiple senators have said, ‘Send us over this bill and we’ll take care of it,’” said Rep. James Lankford of Oklahoma, a member of leadership. “So we’re going to send it to them and see what happens.”  “I want them to fight. They should fight. If they want us to fight, they should fight, too,” added Rep. Pat Tiberi of Ohio, a close ally of House Speaker John Boehner.  If the CR dies in the Senate, Cruz wants the House to begin moving individual funding bills to keep the government from shutting down.  “The House should hold its ground and start passing smaller resolutions one department at a time,” Cruz said. “The House is the only body where the Republicans have a majority. My job is [providing] as much support and air cover as we can for the House to stand up and lead.”  Even if Cruz’s and Lee’s strategy fails, conservatives see little downside to giving them a megaphone that riles up the party base in opposition to the health care law and sets the tone for next year’s midterm elections.  But to Democrats, it’s a preview of Cruz’s strategy for a more distant electoral contest: the 2016 Republican presidential primaries.  “It’s a complete waste of time. For Ted Cruz it makes a lot of sense, but for the rest of America it makes no sense,” Durbin said.  “This is about running for president with Ted Cruz,” Sen. Claire McCaskill (D-Mo.) said on “Fox News Sunday.”  John Bresnahan contributed to this report. 
