    The stakes in the debt-ceiling fight couldn’t be higher. | John Shinkle/POLITICO For the past several weeks, Senate Democrats and the White House have shown a remarkable amount of unity in the controversial fight surrounding the debt ceiling.  Then came shutdown Day Seven.  Just as top Senate Democrats began to lay the groundwork to raise the U.S. government’s borrowing limit through 2014, senior White House officials refused to rule out a short-term increase. The divergent messages caused major heartburn for top Senate Democrats and gave Republicans fresh hope that they could defeat a yearlong debt ceiling hike and win concessions from President Barack Obama in this fall’s fiscal battles.  ( PHOTOS: 25 great shutdown quotes)  By late Monday afternoon, nervous Senate Democrats had reached out to the White House to ensure they were on the same page — and the concerns on Capitol Hill seemed to be alleviated after senior administration officials downplayed the idea of a short-term increase.  But the incident underscored the fear among the congressional Democratic leadership that President Barack Obama may eventually back away from the no-negotiation stance he and Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid (D-Nev.) have voiced for weeks in order to avoid a first-ever default. And it raised questions about Senate Democrats’ next step in the debt ceiling debate if Republicans successfully filibuster a bill to increase the $16.7 trillion national debt ceiling.  ( Also on POLITICO: Gene Sperling: White House open to short-term debt limit boost)  Democrats began to raise concerns privately that the White House appeared to be softening its iron-clad position.  “This is very disconcerting to us,” a senior Senate Democratic leadership aide said on condition of anonymity, referring to comments by the president’s top economic adviser, Gene Sperling, at POLITICO’S Playbook Breakfast on Monday. “All along, the president and White House have been firm on what they want, both in a [government funding bill] and debt ceiling. So we’re concerned about this.”  Senate Majority Whip Dick Durbin (D-Ill.) said, “What does short-term buy us? That buys us Thanksgiving in Washington.”  ( WATCH - Debt ceiling showdown: By the numbers)  The stakes — both political and economic — in the government funding and debt ceiling fights couldn’t be higher. Obama and Hill Democrats, unwilling to relive the budget and debt fights of 2011-12, have warned Republicans for months that they wanted “clean” government funding and debt ceiling bills.  Yet House Speaker John Boehner (R-Ohio), under heavy pressure from hard-line GOP conservatives, refused to put a funding resolution on the House floor without anti-Obamacare language. When Reid and his fellow Democrats refused to accept it, the now weeklong government shutdown ensued. That shutdown shows no sign of ending soon.  The debt-ceiling fight is lining up the same way. Boehner has already said he will not put a clean debt ceiling bill on the House floor. In fact, there’s no current plan for House Republicans to move on anything debt-related. Obama and Reid have so far refused to accept anything other than a long-term debt bill with no preconditions.  ( WATCH: Key moments leading to shutdown deadline)  The Democratic discord started Monday morning when Sperling said the White House would be open to a two- to three-week increase to avert the Oct. 17 deadline when the U.S. government may begin to default on its $16.7 trillion debt. The comments were a shift from the position the White House took in the 2011 debt fight, when it demanded that Congress extend the debt ceiling through the 2012 elections. “It is the responsibility of Congress to decide how long and how often they want to vote on doing that, the important thing is that they not threaten default and that they not put our country on the brink of that,” Sperling said.  Asked whether a two-to-three-week extension was out of the question, Sperling said: “Longer is better for economic certainty and jobs, but it is ultimately up to them.”  Hill Democrats hoped that the White House would clean up the comments later in the day, and spokesman Jay Carney downplayed the idea but didn’t rule it out altogether.  “It’s up to them to set the duration of that,” Carney said of a short-term debt ceiling increase, referring to lawmakers.  Asked about the White House comments, Durbin said: “I don’t know what that means. We’re trying to get some clarification on that.”  Durbin said a short-term increase is just “delaying the inevitable” and added, “We should be dealing with this in honest terms to get it done once and for all.”  The back-and-forth among Democrats demonstrated the tension and pressure wracking Capitol Hill. Seemingly innocuous comments by White House officials get blown up by both sides, and it can take hours to calm down everyone.  A senior White House official insisted neither Sperling nor Carney was unveiling a strategy shift. The White House is right where it’s always been, the official said: Congress needs to pass a clean debt limit as soon as possible.  The White House pointed to Sperling’s exchange with POLITICO’s Mike Allen, who asked whether Obama would accept a debt limit increase of two or three weeks. Sperling didn’t rule it out, the official said, but he also didn’t wholeheartedly embrace the idea, deferring instead to Congress.  Carney later said there has been a “misunderstanding” about Sperling’s comments.  “In sharp contrast to Republican divisions, Democrats are united around common-sense solutions to end the shutdown and prevent a first-ever default on the full faith and credit of the U.S.,” said Amy Brundage, White House spokeswoman.  “We would support efforts under way in the Senate by Senate Democrats to move a bill, a clean bill that would raise the debt ceiling for a year. That would certainly be viewed here as something we could support,” Carney said. “But we don’t get to make those determinations. What our position has always been has not been, raise it for a certain amount of time. It has been, raise the debt ceiling without drama and delay.”  The White House comments came as the fight over the debt limit began to overshadow the battle to reopen the government, which has been shut down since last Tuesday over Congress’s failure to pass a funding bill. Treasury Secretary Jack Lew will testify Thursday morning before the Senate Finance Committee on the debt ceiling.  Asked in an interview with POLITICO if the government would be shut down until the debt ceiling is raised, Reid said: “I think we’re so close, they are almost inseparable right now.”  Reid plans to begin taking procedural steps later this week to set up the first test vote on a clean debt ceiling bill through 2014. Sixty votes would be needed to cut off a filibuster and open debate, meaning Reid must win six Republican votes and keep his 54 Democrats united. Durbin said Monday he wasn’t sure if they had 60 votes yet.  Sen. Mark Kirk (R-Ill.) said Monday he will support cloture and passage of a clean debt ceiling bill, leaving Reid five votes short of the 60-vote threshold.  Senate Minority Whip John Cornyn (R-Texas) wouldn’t say whether GOP leaders would urge their conference to block a debate on the plan.  Cornyn said if Republicans did block the first cloture vote, he would “hope that would provoke a negotiation.”  A number of potential GOP “yes” votes are no sure bets for Reid. GOP deal makers such as Sens. Lindsey Graham of South Carolina and Lamar Alexander of Tennessee, both of whom are up for reelection in 2014, said they want to cut spending as part of a debt ceiling package.  Sen. Susan Collins, the moderate Maine Republican, wouldn’t say if she would back a clean debt ceiling hike.  “I’m not going to prejudge what’s going to happen,” Collins said. “The debt ceiling traditionally has been used as a way to deal with important fiscal issues. And I don’t have a problem with that.”  Carrie Budoff Brown, Burgess Everett and Dave Clarke contributed to this report. 
