Fox News's Chris WallaceChristopher (Chris) WallaceJemele Hill and Cari Champion joining CNN+ Zucker's ouster from CNN looks shabby at best CNN faces new questions about post-Jeff Zucker future MORE informed viewers on Sunday that presumptive Democratic presidential nominee Joe BidenJoe BidenCory Booker and Rosario Dawson have reportedly split US ups estimate of Russian forces on Ukraine border to 130,000 Harris heads to Munich at pivotal moment MORE's campaign said the former vice president was "not available" for an interview after President TrumpDonald TrumpBlack voters are fleeing Biden in droves. Here's why Biden's Super Bowl prediction: 'Loves' Bengals' quarterback, but Rams 'hard to beat' GOP Senate candidate to run 'Let's go Brandon' ad during Super Bowl MORE said Biden couldn't handle tough questioning from the "Fox News Sunday" host."In our interview last week with President Trump, he questioned whether his Democratic opponent, Joe Biden, could handle a similar encounter,” Wallace said. “This week, we asked the Biden campaign for an interview and they said the former vice president was not available.”“We’ll keep asking every week," he added.Fox’s Chris Wallace: "In our interview last week with President Trump, he questioned whether his opponent Joe Biden could handle a similar encounter. Well, we asked the Biden campaign for an interview and they said the former VP was not available. We'll keep asking every week.” pic.twitter.com/5BIbp6dQ02— TV News HQ (@TVNewsHQ) July 26, 2020After his interview with Trump, Wallace said Biden should sit down for extended questioning.“The fact is, the president is out there. He's out there in this broiling heat with me for an hour, took all the questions," Wallace told anchor Bret Baier last Monday. "You can like his answers or dislike them, but he had answers, and Joe Biden hasn’t faced that kind of scrutiny, hasn’t faced that kind of exposure."“You’ve got to feel at some point he’s going to come out from the basement," Wallace continued. "He’s going to have to be more exposed and take questions just as tough as the ones I asked this president."Trump told Wallace in his July 19 interview that Biden would be "crying for mommy" if he were subjected to the same kinds of questions."Let Biden sit through an interview like this, he’ll be on the ground crying for mommy. He’ll say 'Mommy, mommy, please take me home,' " Trump said."Well we’ve asked him for an interview, sir," Wallace replied."He can’t do an interview. He’s incompetent," Trump added.Biden has held one press conference in the past 105 days. The former vice president also did not take questions from reporters after two major policy speeches in the past two weeks.Biden leads in the RealClearPolitics index of polls in several key states Trump captured in 2016, including by 7.8 points in Florida, 7.4 points in Pennsylvania, 8.4 points in Michigan and 6.4 points in Wisconsin.