Edit StoryBreaking|Aug 17, 2020,01:51pm EDT|TOPLINE Portland’s Police Bureau says it’s struggling to respond to 911 calls, including reports of assault, burglary and theft, as violence continues to escalate amid over 80 days of Black Lives Matter protests.         Portland police walk past a dumpster fire during a crowd dispersal on August 14, 2020 in Portland, ... [+] Oregon.     Getty Images    
KEY FACTS   Police told the New York Post on Sunday night that dozens of people were struggling to reach 911 operators as officers were directed to quell sometimes aggressive crowds, throwing rocks and bottles at officers.    Among those requesting help were people calling to report “theft, vandalism, suspicious activity, hazards, hit and run, burglary, violation of restraining order, alarms, stolen cars, harassment and many others,” explained the police department.        The bureau also said on Monday that it was stymied from responding to reports of assault in the city on Sunday night because of a “hostile group,” but did not immediately respond to further questions from Forbes’.      “It’s no secret we’re stretched thin,” Portland police Sergeant Kevin Allen told Forbes, saying the issue has been ongoing since protests began but is “being exacerbated by several pre-planned sworn member retirements this month.”  Peaceful anti-racism protests once again spiraled into violence in the early hours of the morning this weekend, resulting in arrests and serious injuries.    At least 11 people were arrested on Saturday, with some rioters “launching mortars” at police and a 10-pound rock landing two officers in hospital.       On Sunday night, rioters beat a man who crashed his car into a downtown sidewalk, accusing him of attempting to hit them with the vehicle.          
Crucial Quote 
“You are not demonstrating, you are attempting to commit murder,” Mayor Ted Wheeler said earlier this month in a news conference alongside Portland Police Chief Chuck Lovell. 
Key Background 
Wheeler was among a number of local officials to defend the Portland protests when President Trump deployed federal agents to the city in early July to protect federal property. Their heavy handed response, which included tear gas, less-than-lethal munitions and injury-inducing force, aggravated protesters, sparking calls for their exit from Wheeler and Oregon Gov. Kate Brown. The Trump administration agreed to a “partial withdrawal” from the city, closely followed by the dispersal of Oregon State troopers who had been policing protests for two weeks. Portland police are now handling the protests with sideline support from the federal government, struggling to contain demonstrations marked with violence against police and federal property.  
Further Reading 
“Man seriously injured in attack after crashing his truck during Black Lives Matter protest in Portland” (The Washington Post) 
“Many Arrested In Portland Won’t Be Prosecuted, DA Says” (Forbes) 
Follow me on Twitter. Send me a secure tip. PrintReprints & Permissions