          IJR                	President Donald Trump did not commit to ensuring there is a peaceful transfer of power after the presidential election in November. During a press conference on Wednesday, Trump was asked, “Win, lose, or draw in this election, will you commit here today for a peaceful transferral of power after the election? … Will you commit to making sure that there is a peaceful transferral of power after the election?”
“Well, we’re going to have to see what happens,” Trump responded. “You know that I’ve been complaining very strongly about the ballots. And the ballots are a disaster.”
He added, “Get rid of the ballots and you’ll have a very peaceful … there won’t be a transfer, frankly, there’ll be a continuation. The ballots are out of control.”
Watch the video below:      JUST IN: Asked if he'd "commit to making sure that there is a peaceful transferral of power after the election," Pres. Trump says, "Well, we're going to have to see what happens." https://t.co/BURjYQhYGU pic.twitter.com/3sRTVIlsh3
— This Week (@ThisWeekABC) September 23, 2020
Trump appeared to refer to mail-in ballots, which he has regularly railed against, as IJR reported. Speaking to reporters on Sept. 16, Trump said, “Our biggest threat to this election is governors from opposing parties controlling ballots, millions of ballots.”
“To me, that’s a much bigger threat than foreign countries because much of the stuff coming out about foreign countries turned out to be untrue,” he added.
The president has also claimed that “because of the new and unprecedented massive amount of unsolicited ballots which will be sent to ‘voters’ or wherever, this year, the Nov 3rd Election result may NEVER BE ACCURATELY DETERMINED.”
https://twitter.com/realDonaldTrump/status/1306557587375128576
While there is little evidence to prove that mail-in ballots are susceptible to fraud, Trump has repeatedly claimed the election will be rigged.
Additionally, he told reporters on Wednesday that he believes the results of the election be contested and end up before the Supreme Court.
“I think this will end up in the Supreme Court, and I think it’s very important that we have nine justices,” he told reporters.   He continued, “I think it’s better if you go before the election because this scam that the Democrats are pulling — it’s a scam — this scam will be before the United States Supreme Court, and I think having a 4-4 situation is not a good situation if you get that.”        We are committed to truth and accuracy in all of our journalism. Read our editorial standards.                            	SummaryRecent PostsContact               	Comment Down Below          