          IJR                	Federal law enforcement officials announced they foiled a plot to kidnap the governor of Michigan and start a civil war just weeks before the presidential election.
Michigan Gov. Gretchen Whitmer (D) says she could never imagine that militia groups would plot to kidnap her. She also said she believes the militia group members were encouraged by the country’s chief executive. On Thursday afternoon, Whitmer blasted President Donald Trump and accused him of “giving comfort to those who spread fear and hatred and division.”
“Just last week, the President of the United States stood before the American people and refused to condemn white supremacists and hate groups like these two Michigan militia groups,” Whitmer said.
She continued,”‘Stand back and stand by,’ he told them. ‘Stand back and stand by.’ Hate groups heard the President’s words not as a rebuke, but as a rallying cry. As a call to action. When our leaders speak, their words matter. They carry weight. When our leaders meet with, encourage, or fraternize with domestic terrorists, they legitimize their actions, and they are complicit.”      “When they stoke and contribute to hate speech, they are complicit,” she added.
Watch the video below: #BREAKING: Gov. Gretchen Whitmer slams Trump in response to kidnapping plot: "'Stand back and stand by.' Hate groups heard the President's words not as a rebuke, but as a rallying cry. As a call to action." pic.twitter.com/c0U5HdAh1T
— The Hill (@thehill) October 8, 2020
The FBI announced on Thursday that it had arrested six individuals for allegedly plotting to kidnap Whitmer and attack the state government buildings. The plot also involved militia groups from the state. Whitmer’s comments about Trump refer to a moment from last week’s presidential debate when the president was asked to condemn far-right and white supremacist groups. During the debate, Trump was asked if he would condemn those groups, he said, “Sure. I would say almost everything I see is from the left-wing. Not from the right-wing. I’m willing to do anything. I want to see peace.”
When he asked for a specific group to condemn, Democratic presidential nominee Joe Biden threw out the Proud Boys group.
Trump said, “Proud Boys, stand back and stand by. But I’ll tell you what, somebody’s got to do something about Antifa and the left. Because this is not a right-wing problem.”
In case you missed the moment:   https://twitter.com/Breaking911/status/1311128759563681793
After that debate, members of the far-right Proud Boys group shared posts on social media with Trump’s comments incorporated into the logo.
Some terrorism experts said that the president’s comments legitimized the group. Rita Katz, executive director of SITE Intelligence Group, said, “He legitimized them in a way that nobody in the community expected. It’s unbelievable. The celebration is incredible.”
“In my 20 years of tracking terrorism and extremism, I never thought I’d see anything like this from a U.S. president,” Katz added.
However, later in the week, Trump said, “I’ve said it many times, and let me be clear again: I condemn the [Ku Klux Klan]. I condemn all white supremacists. I condemn the Proud Boys. I don’t know much about the Proud Boys, almost nothing.”
He added, “But I condemn that.”        We are committed to truth and accuracy in all of our journalism. Read our editorial standards.                            	SummaryRecent PostsContact               	Comment Down Below          