        This March 27, 2018, provided by the Department of Homeland Security, then-Secretary of Homeland ... [+] Security Kirstjen Nielsen and then-Department of Homeland Security chief of staff Miles Taylor, right, meet with Honduran President Juan Hernandez, not pictured, and security ministers from the Northern Triangle countries in Tegucigalpa, Honduras. Taylor, a former Trump administration official who penned a scathing anti-Trump op-ed and book under the pen name “Anonymous” made his identify public Wednesday, Oct. 28, 2020. (Tim Godbee/Department of Homeland Security via AP)    ASSOCIATED PRESS   
Miles Taylor reveals he is the “Anonymous” Trump Administration insider and now faces harsh backlash from President Trump and others on all sides. Miles Taylor, former Department of Homeland Security official for the Trump Administration, revealed today that he’s the individual who anonymously authored the scathing opinion piece in The New York Times about what he describes as President Trump’s failed leadership and perilous presidency. Taylor later followed up that September 2018 NYT op-ed with a book about the Trump White House titled A Warning. Both the op-ed and the book were written under the name “Anonymous.”  Miles Taylor worked for DHS for just over two years from 2017 until 2019 when he resigned his position as chief of staff after allegedly witnessing President Trump offer to give full pardons to employees who would take actions that could violate federal law. Taylor says that he personally witnessed Trump say he’d pardon employees against federal prosecution for actions that might be deemed criminal in applying Administration policies to stop illegal immigration. Though Miles Taylor informs that this wasn’t the first egregious action he witnessed, he implies that it was the proverbial straw that broke the camel’s back. Taylor said this was the point that he decided he had to go because—as he alleges—Trump wanted people to do things he knew to be illegal.  Trump calls on CNN to fire Miles Taylor; others speak out against Taylor’s actions. There is criticism coming from all sides. Not only is President Trump calling for CNN to fire Taylor, Trump called him a fraud and believes Taylor should be imprisoned for his actions. And even beyond Trump, there is backlash from Trump opponents for some of the methods and approaches that Miles Taylor took to divulge what he deemed to be toxic and failed leadership and possible workplace illegality. In addition to calling for CNN to fire Taylor, during a rally today, Trump also called for Taylor to be prosecuted.    Kayleigh McEnany, White House press secretary, responded with the following after learning of the “Anonymous” revelation today. “This low-level, disgruntled former staffer is a liar and a coward who chose anonymity over action and leaking over leading. He was ineffective and incompetent during his time as DHS Chief of Staff which is why he was promptly fired after only serving in this role for a matter of weeks,” she said, dismissing him as a “low-ranking official.”  The Washington Post notes however that “a chief of staff and many senior deputies to Cabinet members are often political appointees and considered senior administration officials.”   Miles Taylor’s credibility is being questioned. After resigning from his DHS job and becoming a former Trump official, Taylor announces that he is indeed “Anonymous,” but when directly asked about this by Anderson Cooper, he lied. During an interview this past August, Anderson Cooper asked Miles Taylor directly if he was “Anonymous.” Taylor lied and answered in the negative.   People question whether Taylor was at first agreeable to working in the Trump Administration but decided he could profit more by turning on his colleagues and boss. Others question why it is that Miles Taylor seemed to agree with Trump’s stance on immigration and publicly supported it before seemingly being against it. And still others don’t appreciate how Taylor remained anonymous while so many other career professionals such as Sally Yates, Fiona Hill, Olivia Troye and Alexander Vindman (to name a few) came forward more publicly on issues related to the Trump Administration—and at great risk to their finances and their career legacies.     Miles Taylor’s statement on why he revealed his identity. In this statement in Medium, Miles Taylor shares that he criticized Trump anonymously because he wanted to keep the focus on the substance of the issues for which he was revealing. He stated that if his name had been attached, Trump would make it about him, and the issues wouldn’t be addressed in any meaningful way. Taylor shares that he struggled with the decision to put his allegations forward anonymously. He notes that he never sought to denigrate his colleagues and states that his actions were not about money—”I declined a hefty monetary advance and pledged to donate the bulk of the proceeds.” Still, some want Taylor to prove this by donating all of his profits to charity. Whistleblowers struggle internally and risk their careers. Regardless of the specific methods and approaches that Miles Taylor employed, it is difficult and challenging to work in any organization where you question the ethics, morality or legality of decisions and actions of colleagues and superiors. People in these situations can struggle internally with all sorts of leadership and ethical dilemmas as they balance their own integrity, principles and finances and consider the short and long-term career repercussions for speaking out. The National Whistleblower Center defines whistleblower this way. “On the simplest level, a whistleblower is someone who reports waste, fraud, abuse, corruption, or dangers to public health and safety to someone who is in the position to rectify the wrongdoing. A whistleblower typically works inside of the organization where the wrongdoing is taking place; however, being an agency or company “insider” is not essential to serving as a whistleblower. What matters is that the individual discloses information about wrongdoing that otherwise would not be known.”  Whatever the prevailing thinking is about Miles Taylor, he does join an unusually large list of current and former employees within the Trump Administration who indicate a workplace where egregious levels of mismanagement, poor leadership, ineffective policies, pervasive toxicity—and even illegality—abound. While many people may disagree with Taylor’s approach, at the end of the day, blowing the whistle on your boss or your workplace tends to be mired with internal struggles and career implications no matter which approach or method an individual applies. 