In a big bipartisan vote, House lawmakers on Tuesday passed legislation aimed at combating the sharp rise in hate crimes against Asian Americans that have occurred since the start of the coronavirus pandemic.The bill now goes to President BidenJoe BidenUS could spend M monthly on testing unvaccinated federal workers: official GOP senator opposes Biden court pick, likely blocking nominee Overnight Energy & Environment — Biden says Russia attack could spike oil prices MORE, who is expected to sign it into law as soon as Thursday, in the middle of Asian American Pacific Islander Heritage Month. The bill passed in a 364-62 vote, with all no votes coming from Republicans. The Senate last month approved the COVID-19 Hate Crimes Act on a 94-1 vote, with Sen. Josh HawleyJoshua (Josh) David HawleyHawley defends Jan. 6 merch: 'It is not a pro-riot mug' The Hill's 12:30 Report: Signs of de-escalation in Ukraine The Memo: Horizon darkens for Biden on Ukraine MORE (R-Mo.) the lone "no" vote.“After a year of the Asian American community crying out for help, today Congress is taking historic action to pass long overdue hate crimes legislation and send the COVID-19 Hate Crimes Act to President Biden's desk,” Rep. Judy ChuJudy May ChuHouse Democrats attempt balancing act on China competitiveness bill Asian caucus leader warns against encouraging xenophobia in debate on China competition bill Bass raises nearly million since launching LA mayor campaign MORE (D-Calif.), chair of the Congressional Asian Pacific American Caucus, told reporters before the vote.The broad bipartisan vote demonstrates just how much these “daily tragedies of anti-Asian violence have shocked our nation into action,” Chu said.“It is a momentous day,” added Speaker Nancy PelosiNancy PelosiOregon Democrat violates conflicts-of-interest law, failing to report stock trades by deadline Pelosi leading congressional delegation to Israel, Germany, UK Feehery: Washington's biggest scandal MORE (D-Calif.), who represents a San Francisco district where multiple anti-Asian hate incidents have occurred, including the death last year of an elderly Thai American man and the stabbing of two Asian American women just this month.The legislation, authored by Sen. Mazie HironoMazie Keiko HironoBiden to meet with Senate Judiciary Democrats on Supreme Court vacancy Will Republicans apply the 'Barrett rule' to Biden's nominee? Confirmation bias: The fighting has already begun, and Biden hasn't even named a nominee MORE (D-Hawaii) and Rep. Grace MengGrace MengAsian American leaders push for national museum of their own 91 House Dems call on Senate to expand immigration protections in Biden spending bill State Democrat group teams up with federal lawmakers to elect down-ballot candidates MORE (D-N.Y.), would create a position at the Justice Department to expedite a review of COVID-19-related hate crimes; provide grants for states to create hotlines for reporting hate crimes and for law enforcement training on how to prevent and identify hate crimes; and direct federal agencies to work with community organizations to help raise awareness about hate crimes during the pandemic.The legislation makes no mention of Donald Trump, though many Democrats have warned that rhetoric from the former president and his allies, including the terms “China virus” and “kung flu,” have provoked many of the verbal and violent attacks against the Asian American community.Since the start of the pandemic, in March 2020, there have been more than 6,600 hate incidents against Asian Americans, according to the group Stop AAPI Hate. Nearly two-thirds of those incidents targeted women.Passage of the bill comes less than two months after a gunman killed eight people in three Asian-owned spas in greater Atlanta; six of the victims were women of Asian descent. And on Wednesday, the House plans to pass a separate resolution condemning the March 16 massacre in Georgia.  Authorities said the 21-year-old man charged in the killings had been a customer of at least two of the spas, though other attacks have been at random. New York police officials have said many of those perpetrating these crimes in the city have a history of mental illness. Meng, who represents a large Asian American community in Queens, said the legislation will help the federal government better track such hate incidents, including the mental health state of the perpetrators. Other Democrats emphasized that how elected leaders speak about the deadly coronavirus has a direct impact on how members of the Asian American community are treated.“Leadership at the top level makes a difference,” said Rep. Mark TakanoMark Allan TakanoToxic-exposed veterans have held up their part of the pact — now it's our turn This week: Democrats set for showdown on voting rights, filibuster Key House chairman wants to lead official trip to Taiwan in January MORE (D-Calif.), who has explicitly blamed Trump’s rhetoric for the spike in incidents. “We need better data, but ... it’s common sense that if you have a destabilizing leader or destabilizing leaders or big influencers, they can also destabilize those who are vulnerable in terms of their mental stability to act out.”Some of Trump’s top allies in Congress panned the legislation. Ohio Rep. Jim JordanJames (Jim) Daniel JordanThe real reason Jim Jordan is ranting against Jan. 6 committee staff Press: Time for Merrick Garland to flush Donald Trump Overnight Defense & National Security — Top commander vents on Afghan evacuation MORE, the top Republican on the House Judiciary Committee, complained that the bill could infringe on free speech by establishing hotlines where citizens could report anything they find “offensive.” It also creates confusion, he said, by having hate incidents reported to a new state office rather than through normal law enforcement channels.“The Democrats have attempted to blame President TrumpDonald TrumpHillicon Valley — Cyberattack hits Ukrainian defense On The Money — GOP senators block Biden's Fed picks Florida county clerk's typo directed ticketed drivers to site selling Trump merchandise MORE for this rise in violence against Asian Americans, but the facts tell an entirely different story,” Jordan said on the House floor. “This violence by and large is happening in Democrat-controlled cities, many of which, interestingly enough, have defunded their police departments.”Biden has taken a much different approach than Trump in responding to anti-Asian hate. Just days after being sworn in as president, Biden in January signed a memo denouncing racism and xenophobia against Asian Americans; and ensuring that all government statements and documents do not contribute to discrimination against Asian Americans.In March, the Biden administration rolled out new funding and initiatives to curb anti-Asian hate, including a cross-agency initiative at the Justice Department to respond to Asian violence. That month, Biden and Vice President Harris also met with Asian American leaders in Georgia after the mass shooting.And last month, Biden tapped Erika Moritsugu as a senior adviser after complaints from lawmakers that Biden had not named any Asian Americans to Cabinet secretary posts or senior White House roles; Moritsugu will serve as Biden’s top liaison to the Asian-American community.“President Biden has done more for Asian Americans than I've seen in a long time,” Chu said. His actions to combat Asian hate incidents were a “huge step after a year of being totally ignored by President Trump, who actually doubled down on his usage of the terms ‘China virus’ and ‘Wuhan virus.’”The Hirono-Meng legislation overcame last-minute opposition from dozens of progressive Asian American and LGBTQ groups who expressed concerns the bill fails to address the root causes of anti-Asian hate, namely inequality. The groups, including 18 Million Rising and the National Queer Asian Pacific Islander Alliance, want more funding and resources for things like housing, health care and social services rather than law enforcement.“This legislation allocates no new funding to law enforcement,” Meng said, addressing the concerns. “This legislation does assume that law enforcement is currently underreporting these kinds of incidents, and it makes it easy to ignore hate crimes altogether. That's why we believe that this response is necessary.” 