New Year’s Eve has arrived, but ringing in 2021 will look different from when everyone rang in 2020.This time around, many will be celebrating in their own homes with those in their household. With COVID-19 cases on the rise, going out to parties or bars might not be on the table. Just because you can’t go anywhere, doesn’t mean you can’t partake in the usual traditions of NYE, or even add some new ones to your annual celebration. Here are a few ideas on how to modify the holiday while at home:Make Your Own Craft Cocktails To Cheers At Midnight Instead of taking shooters at the bar, you can try to make a fancy cocktail. One you can start off with is a fun Confetti Champagne from Delish.com.This fun drink includes putting colorful Pop Rocks on the rim and filling up the glass with your choice of sparkling wine or your favorite champagne and topping it off with a splash of Sprite. If you’re not a champagne drinker, just add Sprite for a non-alcoholic cocktail. Make A Fancy DinnerIf you received any type of kitchen gadget over the holiday season, NYE would be a great time to break it out and attempt to figure out how to use it.You could also support a local business and order a meal to-go to enjoy in your own home. If you’re spending the holiday with your significant other, lighting a few candles, setting the table and figuring out a recipe together could be a great way to kick off 2021. Watch A MovieMany people would rather put cozy lounge clothes on while snuggling up on the couch watching movies all night rather than have to maneuver around a bar with hundreds of people in it. A few movies you can watch to close out 2020 include “About Time,” “New Year’s Eve,” “Sex in the City,” “While You Were Sleeping,” “Forrest Gump” and “Sleepless in Seattle.” Have A Virtual Party With Zoom and Skype being popular outlets for many families and friend groups throughout 2020, using the platforms for a New Year's Eve party could be a great way to get everyone together. You can still dress up in your most dapper attire and get together virtually with those you would want to ring in 2021 with.  Revelers celebrate in Times Square in New York City on December 31, 2016. Photo: Dimitrios Kambouris/Getty Images  © Copyright IBTimes 2022. All rights reserved.