President-elect Joe BidenJoe BidenCory Booker and Rosario Dawson have reportedly split US ups estimate of Russian forces on Ukraine border to 130,000 Harris heads to Munich at pivotal moment MORE is reportedly planning on canceling the permit for the $8 billion Keystone XL pipeline on his first day in office.The Canadian Broadcasting Corporation (CBC) first reported the news on Sunday after it obtained an apparent briefing note from Biden’s transition team. On the list of executive actions meant for Biden’s first day in office "Rescind Keystone XL pipeline permit" reportedly shows up.As the outlet notes, Biden indicated months ago that he planned on canceling the pipeline, though supporters of the project had been hoping he would change his mind. The project crosses over the U.S.-Canada border and has the support of the Canadian government."The Government of Canada continues to support the Keystone XL project and the benefits that it will bring to both Canada and the United States," Canadian Ambassador to the U.S. Kirsten Hillman said in a statement."Not only has the project itself changed significantly since it was first proposed, but Canada's oilsands production has also changed significantly. Per-barrel oilsands GHG emissions have dropped 31 per cent since 2000, and innovation will continue to drive progress."Biden's transition team did not immediately respond when asked about the report.In response to the report, Sen. Bernie SandersBernie SandersBlack voters are fleeing Biden in droves. Here's why Parties split on Trump, Biden bids in 2024: poll Democratic Senate debates merits of passion vs. pragmatism MORE (I-Vt.) wrote, "The Keystone pipeline is & always has been a disaster. I'm delighted that Joe Biden will cancel the Keystone permit on his first day in office. With all of the major crises facing America, we must never lose sight of the most existential threat facing our planet: climate change."The Keystone pipeline is & always has been a disaster. I'm delighted that Joe Biden will cancel the Keystone permit on his first day in office. With all of the major crises facing America, we must never lose sight of the most existential threat facing our planet: climate change. https://t.co/8lDZDOgsVy— Bernie Sanders (@BernieSanders) January 18, 2021The controversial project has faced several protests from environmentalists and Native Americans since it was first proposed more than a decade ago. In April, a district judge in Montana ruled against the pipeline and canceled a key permit.TC Energy, the company behind the pipeline, had sued the U.S. government before President TrumpDonald TrumpBlack voters are fleeing Biden in droves. Here's why Biden's Super Bowl prediction: 'Loves' Bengals' quarterback, but Rams 'hard to beat' GOP Senate candidate to run 'Let's go Brandon' ad during Super Bowl MORE assumed office but dropped the effort after Trump was elected, the CBC noted.A legal expert who spoke with the outlet said that if TC Energy launches a similar lawsuit, the success would depend on whether investors decide to stay on the project.