Sign up for our daily briefingMake your busy days simpler with the Axios AM and PM newsletters. Catch up on what's new and why it matters in just 5 minutes.Catch up on the day's biggest business storiesSubscribe to the Axios Closer newsletter for insights into the day’s business news and trends and why they matter.Sign up for Axios Pro RataDive into the world of dealmakers across VC, PE and M&A with Axios Pro Rata. Delivered daily to your inbox by Dan Primack and Kia Kokalitcheva.Sports news worthy of your timeBinge on the stats and stories that drive the sports world with the Axios Sports newsletter. Sign up for free.Tech news worthy of your timeGet our smart take on technology from the Valley and D.C. with Axios Login. Sign up for free.Get the inside storiesGet an insider's guide to the new White House with Axios Sneak Peek. Sign up for free.Catch up on coronavirus stories and special reports, curated by Mike Allen everydayCatch up on coronavirus stories and special reports, curated by Mike Allen everydayWant a daily digest of the top Denver news?Get a daily digest of the most important stories affecting your hometown with Axios DenverWant a daily digest of the top Des Moines news?Get a daily digest of the most important stories affecting your hometown with the Axios Des Moines newsletter.Want a daily digest of the top Twin Cities news?Get a daily digest of the most important stories affecting your hometown with Axios Twin CitiesWant a daily digest of the top Tampa Bay news?Get a daily digest of the most important stories affecting your hometown with the Axios Tampa Bay newsletter.Want a daily digest of the top Charlotte news?Get a daily digest of the most important stories affecting your hometown with Axios CharlotteWant a daily digest of the top Nashville news?Get a daily digest of the most important stories affecting your hometown with the Axios Nashville newsletter.Want a daily digest of the top Columbus news?Get a daily digest of the most important stories affecting your hometown with the Axios Columbus newsletter.Want a daily digest of the top Dallas news?Get a daily digest of the most important stories affecting your hometown with the Axios Dallas newsletter.Want a daily digest of the top Austin news?Get a daily digest of the most important stories affecting your hometown with the Axios Austin newsletter.Want a daily digest of the top Atlanta news?Get a daily digest of the most important stories affecting your hometown with the Axios Atlanta newsletter.Want a daily digest of the top Philadelphia news?Get a daily digest of the most important stories affecting your hometown with the Axios Philadelphia newsletter.Want a daily digest of the top Chicago news?Get a daily digest of the most important stories affecting your hometown with the Axios Chicago newsletter.Sign up for Axios NW ArkansasStay up-to-date on the most important and interesting stories affecting NW Arkansas, authored by local reportersWant a daily digest of the top DC news?Get a daily digest of the most important stories affecting your hometown with the Axios DC newsletter.President Trump and his family took off on Air Force One at 9 a.m. on Wednesday morning for the final time en route to Florida.The big picture: Trump's final hours as president were punctuated by his decisions to snub his successor's inauguration and grant pardons to many of his allies who have been swept up in corruption scandals. Simultaneously, congressional leaders were en route to attend Catholic mass with Joe Biden, hours before he is sworn is as the 46th president of the United States.A White House spokesperson confirmed to Axios that Trump left President-elect Biden a note in the Oval Office, following longstanding presidential tradition.Details: At 8:13 a.m., Trump exited the White House residence hand-in-hand with First Lady Melania Trump. He briefly stopped to speak to the press on the South Lawn before boarding Marine One. Trump told them it has been an "honor of a lifetime" to serve, and said "goodbye" to the press, adding that it will hopefully not be a long goodbye.He departed Marine One for the final time at 8:17 a.m., and landed at Joint Base Andrews at 8:28 a.m. The Trump family took photos on the tarmac as he arrived. Trump took the stage minutes later, with "Hail to Chief" blaring in the background. A 21-gun salute sounded as he reached the podium.Teleprompters that were set up were taken down before he went onstage.What he's saying: The reality TV president ran through a list of his accomplishments in his farewell speech, and noted — in a line that everyone could agree on — that "we were not a regular administration." He did not once mention President-elect Joe Biden.He told the crowd to "remember us" when they see an improving economy, something he says he laid the foundation for. "I will always be fighting for you, I will be watching and I will be listening," Trump said. "I wish the new administration great luck and great success." "Goodbye, we love you. We'll be back in some form. ... Have a good life," he concluded.He then boarded Air Force One with his family, and gave one last wave at the top of the stairs.Frank Sinatra's “My Way” played as the president took off — the words, "I did it my way," timed to the plane lifting off the tarmac at 9 a.m. 