There is a growing bipartisan feeling that something has gone wrong in America. We may have been heading toward it for a long time before the 2016 race and paid no attention. But now America is in crisis. It can be seen in the headlines of opinion writers this week in The Washington Post. From the right, Robert Kagan says, "There is something very wrong with Donald TrumpDonald TrumpHillicon Valley — Cyberattack hits Ukrainian defense On The Money — GOP senators block Biden's Fed picks Florida county clerk's typo directed ticketed drivers to site selling Trump merchandise MORE." On the left, Eugene Robinson asks, "Is Donald Trump just plain crazy?"That GOP nominee Donald Trump can be president of the U.S. this time next year is a very real possibility and it is the cause for this concern. A Trump presidency would not only change America forever, but would shake the world. Already Britain and the European Union are feeling the effects. But it may not be too late. The moving testimony of Ghazala Khan, whose son was killed in combat in Iraq, has turned the heart of every mother in America, especially those who have lost a son or daughter in combat. Fathers, too, and everyone. Trump could spiral out of control starting today as America responds to Ghazala Khan's moving testimony.It may have opened a window by bringing home to us the tragic realities of warfare, and it might have presented an opportunity to change course. It is not too late. But it is almost too late. Only a radical shift in procedures can change the fate that now looms over America.Things could change of their own accord if the Clinton couple is determined to have traded influence for cash when Democratic nominee Hillary ClintonHillary Diane Rodham ClintonRight wing criticizes media for lack of coverage on Durham probe Liberal activists need to level with their base Document dump turns toxic for Trump MORE was secretary of State. If she was forced then to step away, the Democrats would bring forth their second, Vice President Joe BidenJoe BidenUS could spend M monthly on testing unvaccinated federal workers: official GOP senator opposes Biden court pick, likely blocking nominee Overnight Energy & Environment — Biden says Russia attack could spike oil prices MORE, a more appropriate "closer" for the successful Obama administration.Khan's testimony could open the compassionate heart of America and send Trump back to the shadows in disgrace. But it would still be hard to get him off the ticket, even if he plummeted in the polling.But in the circumstances of a suddenly vulnerable Trump, there is the possibility that Mitt Romney, the Republican nominee in 2012, might work out something with the Libertarians, running with his old pal William Weld — like Romney, also a former Republican governor of Massachusetts — who is the Libertarian choice for vice president.Together, Romney and Weld could advance a version of Libertarianism to fit a wider audience. They could make the case that, unlike ObamaCare, RomneyCare was a regional model more suited to the libertarian regionalist view, and only became a national model when it was hijacked by the Democrats. But for that to happen, Gary JohnsonGary Earl JohnsonBiden broadened Democratic base, cut into Trump coalition: study New Mexico lawmakers send recreational marijuana bills to governor Judge throws out murder convictions, releases men jailed for 24 years MORE, the current Libertarian nominee, would have to step aside and let Weld/Romney run the show. Libertarianism then in the hands of Weld/Romney would in effect then be a well-needed "reform" approach to the old Republican party. It has been suggested. But it is not likely to happen.There is another approach more appropriate to crisis and it has precedent in recent history. A gathering of the most highly respected elders on the Republican Party — those without interest in awards or elected office — might form a committee and stage an intervention.A similar "intervention" occurred in 2006, when the Iraq Study Group, chaired by former Rep. Lee Hamilton (D-Ind.) and former Secretary of State James A. Baker, chaired a committee of 10, which included another former secretary of State, Lawrence Eagleburger; Vernon Jordan Jr., an adviser to President Bill ClintonWilliam (Bill) Jefferson ClintonAdvice to Supreme Court hopefuls waiting by the phone The allure of 'strong and wrong' Americans think Biden's presidency is a failure — Democrats can fix that MORE; former Attorney General Edwin Meese III; retired Supreme Court Justice Sandra Day O'Connor; Leon Panetta, former congressman and chief of staff of President Clinton who later became CIA director and secretary of Defense under President Obama; former Secretary of Defense William Perry; and former Sens. Charles Robb (D-Va.) and Alan Simpson (Wyo.), to change the course of the war in Iraq after it had spiraled out of control. The Iraq Study Group was facilitated by the United States Institute of Peace, which released the committee's final report on Dec. 6, 2006.The case might be made that the crisis we face today is even greater than that which we faced in 2006. Some might be called on again to form a similar ad hoc "council of elders" to change the pending fate that beckons here in 2016. Such an esteemed committee might bring together an ad hoc intramural party movement to operate within the existing Republican Party sphere — potentially to save the Republican Party from oblivion in the hands of a renegade — much as one changed the course of history in the Iraq Study Group.The committee might propose its own "alternative" candidates to face off against Trump on a one-time basis, stating clearly its governing principles. My choice for such independent "alt" candidates — although the Trump party is really the "alternative" party now — for president and vice president would be Romney and Nevada Gov. Brian Sandoval, for Romney has the best chance of winning and has spoken clearly about Trump, and Sandoval represents the best of America in a younger generation as the center of political gravity in America heads West.Going alone as an independent, Romney or another candidate would probably have little chance. But if he had the backing of a group of highly respected elders brought together specific to challenge a Republican party suddenly turned renegade, he might find success just as the Iraq Study Group did in 2006.Quigley is a prize-winning writer who has worked more than 35 years as a book and magazine editor, political commentator and reviewer. He lives in New Hampshire with his wife and four children. Contact him at quigley1985@gmail.com.The views expressed by contributors are their own and not the views of The Hill.