         Join a Conversation on Inequality, Economic Inequality
Join others from across the political spectrum in a civil, respectful conversation about inequality, specifically economic inequality. Here are some different ways you can do that.
Discuss Economic Inequality Online with Pros and Cons
Create your own pro-con list for ways to address specific issues while collaborating with people from the left, center and right. Engage with people and ideas from all sides of the issue using this online interactive tool. Here are some recommended dialogs you can join: Is job creation the best way to fight economic inequality?
Should the U.S. raise the minimum wage?
Want to start a different question on economic inequality to discuss online? Email us to start a new Dialog Discuss Economic Inequality In Person in your Living Room
Have a Living Room Conversation on the Opportunity Gap with half a dozen friends who have diverse opinions. Enjoy this simple, respectful, structured program that begins with human relationships. Discuss Economic Inequality in Your Classroom
Our AllSides for Schools program includes a variety of tools, lesson plans and guides for teachers to integrate different issues and discussions into their classroom. Check out our special school program for discussing economic inequality in the classroom.
Dig Deeper into Economic Inequality
If you want to want to know more about economic inequality, it is a good idea to check out articles from left, center and right sources. After all, you don't know what you don't know, and chances are you may have a more narrow view of the subject than you think. That is true for most of us.
Even if you are an expert, you might not appreciate how different people react or perceive the issue. Start by looking at some key terms in a human context. People have different perceptions of inequality and inequity, equality, hard work, the American Dream, social responsibility and social justice, and the welfare system.
Catch up on the latest by reviewing recent news and articles on inequality. Be sure to scroll down to see the latest breaking news which you can filter by left, center and right sources.
To dig more into data and policies, review articles on inequality by think tanks from the left, as well as think tanks from the center and others from the right.                 