Former House Speaker Newt Gingrich (R-Ga.) on Tuesday evening accused Fox News's Megyn Kelly of being "fascinated with sex" after she asked about the women who have accused Republican presidential nominee Donald TrumpDonald TrumpHillicon Valley — Cyberattack hits Ukrainian defense On The Money — GOP senators block Biden's Fed picks Florida county clerk's typo directed ticketed drivers to site selling Trump merchandise MORE of sexual assault. In a contentious segment on Kelly's show, Gingrich, a top Trump adviser and surrogate, batted down questions about Trump's accusers and about a tape in which the GOP nominee brags about kissing and grabbing women without their consent. "I am sick and tired of people like you using that language. That is inflammatory. That is not true," Gingrich said, pointing his finger at the camera after Kelly used the term "sexual predator" to describe the allegations."When you use those words, you take a position, and it is very unfair of you to do that, Megyn," Gingrich said. Kelly shot back: "I think your defensiveness on this may speak volumes, sir." She continued: "Let me make my point. ... If Mr. Trump is a sexual predator, then it is a big story. And what we saw on that tape was Trump saying himself he likes to grab women by their genitals and kiss them against their will. That's what we saw. And then we saw 10 women come forward after he denied actually doing it."Gingrich continued to argue that the media focuses too much on the recent Trump scandal while largely ignoring WikiLeaks's release of hacked emails from the campaign of Democratic nominee Hillary ClintonHillary Diane Rodham ClintonRight wing criticizes media for lack of coverage on Durham probe Liberal activists need to level with their base Document dump turns toxic for Trump MORE. "You are fascinated with sex and you don't care about public policy," Gingrich said. "Me, really?" Kelly asked. "That's what I get out of watching you tonight," Gingrich said. She retorted: "You know what, Mr. Speaker? I am not fascinated by sex, but I am fascinated by the protection of women and understanding what we're getting in the Oval Office." 