Senators involved in bipartisan negotiations say they and White House officials have agreed to an infrastructure "framework," and they'll meet with President BidenJoe BidenUS could spend M monthly on testing unvaccinated federal workers: official GOP senator opposes Biden court pick, likely blocking nominee Overnight Energy & Environment — Biden says Russia attack could spike oil prices MORE Thursday to brief him. “Republicans and Democrats have come together, along with the White House, and we’ve agreed on a framework and we’re gonna be heading to the White House tomorrow," Sen. Mitt RomneyWillard (Mitt) Mitt RomneyOvernight Health Care — Biden eyes additional COVID-19 funding GOP scrambles to figure out what Trump legal drama means for future  Senate confirms Biden FDA nominee MORE (R-Utah) told reporters after a meeting Wednesday. Sen. Joe ManchinJoe ManchinOvernight Health Care — Biden eyes additional COVID-19 funding Overnight Energy & Environment — Biden says Russia attack could spike oil prices Dem plan to suspend the gas tax faces bipartisan pushback MORE (D-W.Va.), another member of the group, confirmed the White House officials in the meeting signed off on the framework and that they "came to an agreement.""They said it sounded good...We said we're all on the same page," Manchin added about the White House reaction in the meeting. The plan, according to the senators, consists largely of details the bipartisan group has released in recent weeks as the senators tried to gain momentum for their proposal. It includes roughly the same amount of new spending, $579 billion, for a total of $974 billion over five years or $1.2 trillion over eight years. After days of high-profile confusion and divisions over how to pay for the agreement, senators emerged from Wednesday night's meeting saying that both the top-line and the how to pay for it had been locked in. "There is a framework on a bipartisan infrastructure package," Sen. Susan CollinsSusan Margaret CollinsOvernight Health Care — Biden eyes additional COVID-19 funding Senate confirms Biden FDA nominee Biden's FDA pick clears key Senate hurdle MORE (R-Maine), another member of the group, told reporters.The agreement is effectively tentative until, and if, Biden signs off. Senators noted that they still also need to draft the legislation and iron out final details. "There are always details ...we haven't written this down yet," Romney said. Collins added that there are "still a lot of details to be worked out."And the White House stopped short of putting Biden's stamp of approval on the framework ahead of Thursday's meeting, effectively making it a tentative agreement. "White House senior staff had two productive meetings today with the bipartisan group of Senators who have been negotiating about infrastructure. The group made progress towards an outline of a potential agreement, and the President has invited the group to come to the White House tomorrow to discuss this in-person," White House spokesperson Jen PsakiJen PsakiOn The Money — GOP senators block Biden's Fed picks Psaki calls Republicans 'irresponsible' for blocking Biden's Fed nominees Biden warns energy prices could be impacted if Russia invades Ukraine MORE said in a statement.But it's still a boost for the likelihood that Biden is able to get his biggest legislative priority through Congress and a significant breakthrough for the chances of a bipartisan infrastructure package. Senators and the administration have been locked in talks for months—first with a group of GOP senators led by Sen. Shelley Moore CapitoShelley Wellons Moore CapitoThe Hill's Morning Report - Presented by Facebook - Americans struggle with soaring prices Sen. Capito tests positive for COVID-19 Lawmakers rolling out Violence Against Women Act without 'controversial' provision MORE (R-W.Va.) and then with the bipartisan group, spearheaded by Sens. Kyrsten SinemaKyrsten SinemaSinema has a golden opportunity to stand with small businesses 1 in 4 Democrats say party did not take full advantage of control of power in 2021: poll Black voters are fleeing Biden in droves. Here's why MORE (D-Ariz.) and Rob PortmanRobert (Rob) Jones PortmanSenators eye Plan B amid Russia sanctions stalemate Putin's Ukraine gambit unites Western democracies he sought to divide Josh Mandel tests Ohio's appetite for red meat rhetoric MORE (R-Ohio). It's also a u-turn from even earlier Wednesday when the group faced skepticism from their colleagues that they would be able to get a deal. Republicans, watching their colleagues try to capture what has effectively been a policy white whale for years, questioned if Democratic negotiators and the White House were on the same page. "I think they are of two minds," said Sen. John CornynJohn CornynDemocrats show little appetite for Biden's call for gun control Poll finds Abbott with 10-point lead on Beto O'Rourke in Texas Photos of the Week: Marking COVID-19 deaths, Mt. Etna and Olympic snowboarders MORE (R-Texas) about Democrats on whether or not to go-it-alone or get a bipartisan deal. And Democrats have made it increasingly clear that they are ready to cut off the bipartisan talks and try to pass a massive infrastructure package on their own. Democrats can use reconciliation to avoid the 60-vote legislative filibuster in the Senate if they can unite all 50 of their members behind a plan. But some, like Manchin, haven't yet committed to a Democratic-only package. Democrats also haven't agreed to the scope of such a plan with Sen. Bernie SandersBernie SandersOvernight Health Care — Biden eyes additional COVID-19 funding Senate confirms Biden FDA nominee Biden's FDA pick clears key Senate hurdle MORE (I-Vt.) suggestion that they could go as high as $6 trillion sparking pushback from others in the caucus. Senators involved in the negotiations also say they felt intense pressure to at least lock in a framework of an agreement before the Senate leaves town for a two-week recess on Thursday. Senate Majority Leader Charles SchumerChuck SchumerAmerican unity is key to a Europe whole and free Anxious Democrats want Biden to speed up vetting for Supreme Court pick Democratic Senate debates merits of passion vs. pragmatism MORE (D-N.Y.) wants to have votes on both a bipartisan package and a budget resolution that would set up a second, separate larger Democratic-only bill during the chamber's brief July work period. "Both tracks, the bipartisan track and the budget reconciliation track, are proceeding apace. And we hope to have voted on both of them ... in July," Schumer told reporters on Wednesday night after a roughly two-hour meeting with House Speaker Nancy PelosiNancy PelosiOregon Democrat violates conflicts-of-interest law, failing to report stock trades by deadline Pelosi leading congressional delegation to Israel, Germany, UK Feehery: Washington's biggest scandal MORE (D-Calif.) and White House officials.Schumer clarified that he meant the "first act" of reconciliation while passing a budget resolution would be finished next month. Democrats have not set a hard timeline for when they think they could get the second step—a mammoth, detailed infrastructure bill—through the Senate, which is expected to leave in early August until mid-September.And even while senators in the bipartisan groups touted that they had reached a "framework agreement" they still need to sell the plan to their own colleagues, in addition to Biden.Sen. Rob Portman (R-Ohio), another member of the group, stopped short of using the word "framework," but stressed that they were "very close." "We're going to have the outreach and the support to grow the vote from the middle out," Portman said.Neither Schumer or Pelosi endorsed the framework on Wednesday night, or predicted how much support it could get, saying they wanted to see the details. In a warning shot that the agreement isn't a done deal just because the White House officials and the bipartisan group signed off, Sen. Chris MurphyChristopher (Chris) Scott MurphyOn The Money — GOP senators block Biden's Fed picks Negotiators make progress in fiscal 2022 spending talks Democrats show little appetite for Biden's call for gun control MORE (D-Conn.) warned that the deal didn't yet have the votes needed to pass the Senate. "That deal has 20 votes — not 60 votes,” Chris Murphy said during a CNN interview, adding that they need to do a "deep dive."“That deal has 20 votes — not 60 votes,” Chris Murphy says on CNN. Says they have to do a “deep dive” on bill https://t.co/oXdbpGLtdD— Manu Raju (@mkraju) June 24, 2021Updated at 10:43 p.m.