Former President ObamaBarack Hussein ObamaObama Presidential Center to feature Obergefell marriage certificate, Sesame Street puppets Axelrod stepping down as director of politics institute at University of Chicago Senate confirms Biden FDA nominee MORE is being honored with a new state holiday in his former state of Illinois.Illinois Gov. Bruce Rauner (R) signed a measure Friday to make Aug. 4 “Barack Obama Day” in the state, according to NBC Chicago. The holiday will be celebrated each year on Obama’s birthday beginning in 2018.The day is “set apart to honor the 44th President of the United States of America who began his career serving the People of Illinois in both the Illinois State Senate and the United States Senate, and dedicated his life to protecting the rights of Americans and building bridges across communities.”Senate Bill 55 was passed by both state houses with no votes against it.Rauner praised the idea behind the bill earlier this year after a previous version, which would have made the day a legal state holiday, failed. The new holiday is commemorative. "It's incredibly proud for Illinois that the president came from Illinois. I think it's awesome, and I think we should celebrate it," Rauner said at the time, according to NBC Chicago. "I don't think it should be a formal holiday with paid, forced time off, but I think it should be a day of acknowledgment and celebration."Obama celebrated his 56th birthday on Friday, his first since leaving the White House. He and former first lady Michelle ObamaMichelle LeVaughn Robinson ObamaObama Presidential Center to feature Obergefell marriage certificate, Sesame Street puppets Parties split on Trump, Biden bids in 2024: poll The Hill's Morning Report - Presented by Facebook - More blue states let mask mandates expire MORE were spotted at Rasika West End in Washington, D.C. celebrating.Former Vice President Joe BidenJoe BidenUS could spend M monthly on testing unvaccinated federal workers: official GOP senator opposes Biden court pick, likely blocking nominee Overnight Energy & Environment — Biden says Russia attack could spike oil prices MORE wished Obama happy birthday on Twitter Friday morning."Your service has been a great gift to the country, and your friendship and brotherhood are a great gift to me. Happy birthday, Barack," Biden tweeted.