Edit StoryOct 14, 2017,08:24pm EDT|I cover labor, culture, drugs, AI, and more.This article is more than 4 years old. One of porn's most prominent figures has offered up big money for a 'smoking gun' that can successfully depose the U.S. president, according to media reports and some pricey advertising real estate.  Larry Flynt, the creator of Hustler Magazine and producer of a galaxy of XXX-rated porn films, has announced a reward of $10 million for "information leading to the impeachment and removal from office of Donald J. Trump.” In a full-page ad in Sunday's Washington Post, Flynt provided details on the kind of information he thinks could serve this purpose, as well as his reasons for wanting the business reality star-turned-head of state removed from office. The news of Flynt's $10 million offer broke Friday when Fox News business reporter Liz Claman tweeted out a statement from Flynt, who himself later retweeted it. 
See also: Russia Reportedly Tried To Enflame U.S. Politics With Pokémon Go, Too    3:30p FBN EXCLSV: @washingtonpost will run a Sun.Hustler Mag's @ImLarryFlynt offers $10m 4 info on @realDonaldTrump pic.twitter.com/6SgK1khFDi   — Liz Claman (@LizClaman) October 13, 2017  As the Post reported Saturday, the full-page ad in its Sunday edition is "hard to miss" with its massive, all-caps headline and many lines of image-free text below. 
In it, Flynt describes various reasons he feels the president should be ousted, with charges ranging from "telling hundreds of bald-faced lies" and "gross nepotism and appointment of unqualified persons to high office" to "compromising domestic and foreign policy with his massive conflicts-of-interest global business empire." Flynt also queries whether Russian, U.S., and private Trump business interests have become entangled, and stresses his belief in "[the] need "to flush everything out into the open.”  As the New York Post pointed out, Flynt has previously offered to pony up for information that could bring Trump's tenure to an end. Last October, he announced a reward of $1 million for “verifiable video footage or audio recordings for use prior to the November 8 election clearly showing Donald Trump engaging in illegal activity or acting in a sexually demeaning or derogatory manner,” or other hard-hitting, "scandalous" content. The White House was reached out to for comment, which will be included here when and if available. See also: Breitbart Emails Trace Neo-Nazi Moves Of Steve Bannon, Milo Yiannopoulos: Report  
Follow me on Twitter or LinkedIn. Check out my website. PrintReprints & Permissions