Edit StoryI write about income inequality, mobility, labor markets and taxes.This article is more than 4 years old.The December jobs report from the Bureau of Labor Statistics shows a year of steady improvement in the labor market. The unemployment rate continued to decline, from 4.8 percent in January to 4.1 percent in December, and total employment increased by 2.1 million jobs. This labor market strength extends beyond the headline numbers, as many other stubborn indicators have shown tremendous improvement. The labor underutilization rate, which captures unemployed, involuntary part-time workers and discouraged workers, is today at 8.1 percent, down from its peak of 17 percent in 2010. The number of long-term unemployed workers has significantly declined as well, and the unemployment rates for certain demographics, such as African-Americans, are near 40-year lows. If there is one mystery still dragging down this otherwise rosy labor market picture, it is the lack of wage growth. Over the year, average hourly earnings have grown by 2.5 percent. Yet given an already tight and still tightening labor market, this wage growth seems lackluster. To explore potential reasons for this apparent wage stagnation, we can look at the sectors where jobs have been gained, the types of jobs gained and the size distribution of firms which are creating jobs. Digging deeper into these indicators suggests that wage growth may be at the cusp of taking off.  One often-touted explanation for low wage growth is that while workers are getting jobs, these are part-time jobs that don’t command high wages. This was certainly true during and immediately after the Great Recession, when we saw an increase in part-time work, and particularly involuntary part-time work. Involuntary part-time work is indicative of slack in the labor market, and it makes sense that employers could pay low wages while there was a large supply of workers who wanted full-time jobs but had to settle for less. But this situation has changed significantly. Unemployment is low, and 2017 saw an 11.5 percent decline in involuntary part-time work. As the graph below shows, from December 2016 to December 2017, the number of involuntary part-time workers fell by 639,000, while the number of full-time workers increased by 1.9 million. The pool of unemployed workers has dried up, and employers are shifting part-time workers to full-time. If these trends continue, it’s hard to imagine a scenario in which wage growth does not increase.   Another common explanation for low wage growth is that the job gains in the initial years of the recovery were mostly in low-paying service sectors like retail or leisure and hospitality. In 2017, the biggest job gains were in mining and logging, construction, and professional and business services, all relatively high-paying industries. Manufacturing added 166,000 jobs as well, a considerable improvement over the net decline in 2016. But the picture as it relates to wage growth is more mixed. Sectors like mining and logging and construction saw the biggest wage gains in 2017, with increases in nominal wages of 5 and 4 percent, respectively. On the other hand, professional and business services saw nominal wage gains of less than 1 percent in 2017. So wage gains for average workers could vary depending upon which sectors are likely to see more job gains. If relatively higher paying sectors gain more steam, it is likely that wage growth will take off. However, if the bulk of jobs are expected to be in relatively lower paying sectors like education, business services and leisure and hospitality, then wages may continue to grow relatively slowly.   A final factor to consider is whether job gains are concentrated in smaller firms or larger firms. Reports from Automatic Data Processing (ADP), a human resources firm that produces monthly employment reports using payroll data, show that employment grew fastest in 2017 in large firms, specifically those with more than 500 employees. The chart below shows that large firms expanded their workforce by more than 2.5 percent, but small businesses expanded by less than 2 percent. As larger businesses typically pay better than smaller firms, this would again suggest that if these trends continued, wage growth should take off soon.   Hence a deeper look at the data suggests that while wage growth appears to be continuing a decade-long stagnation, there is ample reason for optimism. Not only are more and more workers finding jobs, these jobs are much more likely to be in full-time work, at larger businesses and in sectors that are relatively better paying. The first jobs report of 2018 should be greeted with cheer. Wage gains should be just around the corner. PrintReprints & Permissions