A federal judge in San Francisco on Tuesday temporarily blocked the Trump administration from ending the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program that protects certain immigrants from deportation.Judge William Alsup said the Obama-era program must remain in place while litigation over Trump’s decision to end the program plays out. In a court ruling, Alsup said the Department of Homeland Security's "decision to rescind DACA was based on a flawed legal premise." As a result, DACA recipients who failed to renew their status by last year’s deadline will have a chance to submit renewal applications. The decision does not, however, allow new applications to be submitted."Dreamers' lives were thrown into chaos when the Trump Administration tried to terminate the DACA program without obeying the law," said California Attorney General Xavier BecerraXavier BecerraOvernight Health Care — Biden eyes additional COVID-19 funding Blackburn drops hold on funding bill after HHS disputes crack pipe claims Biden administration eyes billion for COVID-19 funding in talks with Congress MORE, referring to DACA recipients. "Today's ruling is a huge step in the right direction." "America is and has been home to Dreamers who courageously came forward, applied for DACA and did everything the federal government asked of them," Becerra added. "They followed DACA's rules, they succeeded in school, at work and in business, and they have contributed in building a better America. We will fight at every turn for their rights and opportunities so they may continue to contribute to America."President TrumpDonald TrumpHillicon Valley — Cyberattack hits Ukrainian defense On The Money — GOP senators block Biden's Fed picks Florida county clerk's typo directed ticketed drivers to site selling Trump merchandise MORE announced in September that he would rescind the program, which allows certain immigrants who arrived in the U.S. illegally as children to stay and work without fear of deportation.DACA was among the issues discussed at a bipartisan immigration meeting on Tuesday. Trump indicated he would support what those in the room came up with, adding that he was willing to “take the heat” to back a bipartisan deal.Trump at one point said he wants a “bill of love” to address DACA, and in another instance appeared to voice support for Sen. Dianne FeinsteinDianne Emiel FeinsteinDemocrats show little appetite for Biden's call for gun control Lawmakers rolling out Violence Against Women Act without 'controversial' provision Biden to meet with Senate Judiciary Democrats on Supreme Court vacancy MORE's (D-Calif.) suggestion of a clean DACA bill while dealing with other issues, like border security, later.House Majority Leader Kevin McCarthyKevin McCarthyDC delegate: Possible bill to repeal home rule 'radical' and 'very unexpected' Press: Time for Merrick Garland to flush Donald Trump The Hill's Morning Report - World poised for war MORE (R-Calif.) quickly clarified the Feinstein comment, reminding Trump of the need to implement border-security measures in exchange for DACA.Updated on Jan. 10 at 8:05 a.m.