By George PierpointBBC UGC and Social NewsMedia caption, "He has incredible genes"US presidents regularly undergo physical examinations. It is not remarkable. However, the results of Donald Trump's recent medical check-up have sparked an online conspiracy theory - the girther movement. According to the official medical report, released by the White House on 16 January, President Trump stands at 75 inches (6ft 3in; 1.9m) and weighs 239lb (17st 1lb; 108kg). But the girther movement, propelled mainly by critics of the president, posits that Mr Trump is shorter and heavier than the report suggests. This particular presidential physical has received increased interest after questions were raised over Mr Trump's mental health and supposed unhealthy diet. You may also like: There have been more than 56,000 tweets about the girther movement since late on 16 January, with one of the first tweets to use the term posted by political commentator Chris Hayes. Has anyone coined "girther" for those who belive the president weighs more than his doctor reports?— Chris Hayes (@chrislhayes) January 16, 2018
The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites.View original tweet on TwitterOne of the most popular girther tweets claims to show a photograph of Mr Trump's driving licence listing the president as 6ft 2in (74in; 1.88m), an inch shorter than reported by the White House physician. A number of social media users posted photos of Mr Trump standing next to well-known figures in a bid to compare their heights. Others online have questioned the independence of the doctor overseeing the medical examination. Dr Ronny L Jackson is the current Physician to the President and oversaw two of former President Obama's medical examinations. Guardians of the Galaxy director James Gunn used the #girther hashtag to offer to donate $100,000 (£72,470) to charity if the president agreed to be re-weighed by a different doctor. While much of the discussion online was sceptical of the claims made in the president's medical report, some defended Mr Trump and slammed the girther movement. Referring to previous calls for the president to release his tax returns, one twitter user questioned if Mr Trump's critics would ever be satisfied with the evidence produced by the current administration.The way the left responds to Trump's weight just makes me think that if he DID release his tax returns, the left would call it fake anyway. And I'm no Trump fan. #Girther— Jake (@TheJakeEngle) January 17, 2018
The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites.View original tweet on TwitterSome suggested the girther movement was hypocritical for fat-shaming the president. And former director of the US Office of Government Ethics, Walter Shaub Jr, asked whether people should be making jibes about President Trump's physical attributes.Twitter is the sort of place where people who condemn Trump's wisecracks about physical attributes make wisecracks about his physical attributes.— Walter Shaub (@waltshaub) January 17, 2018
The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites.View original tweet on TwitterThe term girther is an apparent nod to the well-established "birther' movement", made up mainly of right-wing activists who opposed President Obama, with Mr Trump as its most public face. It has been widely derided as a racist conspiracy.  #Girther A post shared by CFOX (@cfoxvan) on Mar 4, 2016 at 4:17pm PST