President TrumpDonald TrumpHillicon Valley — Cyberattack hits Ukrainian defense On The Money — GOP senators block Biden's Fed picks Florida county clerk's typo directed ticketed drivers to site selling Trump merchandise MORE on Monday evening signed a government spending measure, ending a government shutdown that began at midnight on Friday.The stopgap funding, which expires Feb. 8, passed both the Senate and House by large margins earlier in the day.So as the government prepares to reopen, who emerged as the winners and losers of the first big congressional controversy of 2018?WINNERSSenate Majority Leader Mitch McConnellAddison (Mitch) Mitchell McConnellGOP scrambles to figure out what Trump legal drama means for future  Senate leaders send Putin symbolic warning shot amid invasion fears GOP boycotts Biden Fed nominees' vote as bank fights inflation MORE (R-Ky.)McConnell is widely perceived to have got the better of his Democratic counterpart, Minority Leader Charles SchumerChuck SchumerAmerican unity is key to a Europe whole and free Anxious Democrats want Biden to speed up vetting for Supreme Court pick Democratic Senate debates merits of passion vs. pragmatism MORE (N.Y.). McConnell gave up little by simply pledging to have a vote on the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program. His broader argument — that DACA was not sufficiently important to force a shuttering of the government — also carried the day, at least for now. McConnell is hardly out of the woods yet — the process of trying to get a DACA deal remains fraught with difficulty and Democrats will accuse him of bad faith if he comes up short. But the wily McConnell has proven once again that it is hard to outflank him on tactics.Senate centristsA group of about 20 senators broke the logjam with talks on Sunday. In a body that is often slammed as hopelessly dysfunctional, they actually got something done. Democrats who face challenging reelection races were central, Sens. Joe DonnellyJoseph (Joe) Simon DonnellySenate set for muted battle over Breyer successor Former Sen. Donnelly confirmed as Vatican ambassador Biden to have audience with pope, attend G20 summit MORE (Ind.), Joe ManchinJoe ManchinOvernight Health Care — Biden eyes additional COVID-19 funding Overnight Energy & Environment — Biden says Russia attack could spike oil prices Dem plan to suspend the gas tax faces bipartisan pushback MORE (W.Va.) and Claire McCaskillClaire Conner McCaskillSenate set for muted battle over Breyer successor Biden, lawmakers mourn Harry Reid Harry Reid, political pugilist and longtime Senate majority leader, dies MORE (Mo.) among them. But Republicans, including several critics of Trump, also played their part. Sen. Lindsey GrahamLindsey Olin GrahamThe conservative case for nominating a Black woman to the Supreme Court The Hill's Morning Report - World poised for war Anxious Democrats want Biden to speed up vetting for Supreme Court pick MORE (S.C.) was particularly prominent, with Sens. Susan CollinsSusan Margaret CollinsOvernight Health Care — Biden eyes additional COVID-19 funding Senate confirms Biden FDA nominee Biden's FDA pick clears key Senate hurdle MORE (Maine), Jeff FlakeJeffrey (Jeff) Lane FlakeFlake meets with Erdoğan in first official duties as US ambassador Poll: Sinema approval higher among Arizona Republicans than Democrats Cruz to get Nord Stream 2 vote as part of deal on Biden nominees MORE (Ariz.), Bob CorkerRobert (Bob) Phillips CorkerRepublicans, ideology, and demise of the state and local tax deduction Cheney set to be face of anti-Trump GOP How leaving Afghanistan cancels our post-9/11 use of force MORE (Tenn.) and Lisa MurkowskiLisa Ann MurkowskiOvernight Health Care — Biden eyes additional COVID-19 funding Overnight Energy & Environment — Biden says Russia attack could spike oil prices Dem plan to suspend the gas tax faces bipartisan pushback MORE (Alaska) also important players.None of this guarantees that there will be a later, bigger deal to protect DACA beneficiaries, those immigrants, often called "Dreamers," brought to the country illegally as children. But the bipartisan group met its primary goal: getting the government running again.Speaker Paul RyanPaul Davis RyanGOP bill highlights Republican rift on immigration How Kevin McCarthy sold his soul to Donald Trump On The Trail: Retirements offer window into House Democratic mood MORE (R-Wis.)Ryan avoided any blame for the shutdown. The Speaker shepherded a spending bill through the House late last week, with the issue only hitting the skids once it moved to the Senate. It was a solid victory for Ryan, who has some complicated currents to navigate, especially with his most conservative members. Ryan did offer some late concessions to members of the hard-right House Freedom Caucus, promising future votes on military spending and immigration, according to The Washington Post. And he will also have a tricky path ahead on whether to press for a DACA fix.But, for now, Ryan will have few complaints.2020 Democratic contendersThere was one very meaningful dividing line among Democrats on the crucial midday Monday vote that began bringing the shutdown to a close. While Schumer was joined by 32 other members of his party, virtually every Senate Democrat who is considered a plausible White House contender voted the other way. Sens. Cory BookerCory BookerCory Booker and Rosario Dawson have reportedly split Schumer asks for input as Democrats finalize cannabis bill Bass would move hundreds of LAPD officers from desk jobs into patrols if elected mayor MORE (N.J.), Kirsten GillibrandKirsten GillibrandGillibrand endorses Hochul in bid for full term as New York governor Stock ban faces steep hurdles despite growing support Senate passes bill ending forced arbitration in sexual misconduct cases MORE (N.Y.), Kamala HarrisKamala HarrisWhite House director of broadcast media leaving for private sector The allure of 'strong and wrong' Parties split on Trump, Biden bids in 2024: poll MORE (Calif.) and Elizabeth WarrenElizabeth WarrenSenate confirms Biden FDA nominee Biden's FDA pick clears key Senate hurdle Lina Khan won't solve inflation MORE (Mass.) all voted no, as did Sen. Bernie SandersBernie SandersOvernight Health Care — Biden eyes additional COVID-19 funding Senate confirms Biden FDA nominee Biden's FDA pick clears key Senate hurdle MORE (I-Vt.).Those senators might well have sincere objections to the deal, but they were also engaging in smart political positioning. Their votes allowed them to present themselves as unyielding fighters for the liberal cause — even while the votes of their more centrist colleagues reopened the government. The result was a politically useful vote for the 2020 hopefuls, with no real risk attached.LOSERSSenate Minority Leader Charles Schumer (D-N.Y.)Schumer sought to put the best face on the deal to end the shutdown, hitting Trump for not being more engaged in the negotiations and suggesting there had been a solid advance toward protecting DACA beneficiaries. But the fact remains that the minority leader got remarkably little in return for ending the shutdown. The unhappiness among progressive activists is clear: The Progressive Change Campaign Committee (PCCC) accused him of caving, while another liberal group, Credo, lambasted him as “the worst negotiator in Washington.” Charles Chamberlain, the executive director of Democracy for America, accused Senate Democrats more broadly of “a stunning display of moral and political cowardice.”Trump, meanwhile, crowed that “Democrats in Congress have come to their senses.” Schumer could yet have the last laugh, if a DACA deal were to be done next month.But right now, it’s been a poor few days for the Senate Democratic leader.The LeftProgressives can and will rage about the deal their party leaders have done. Stephanie Taylor, a co-founder of the PCCC, lamented in a statement that the deal is emblematic of “why people don’t believe the Democratic Party stands for anything.” But that doesn’t change the fact that the left once again failed to bend the party to its will. For all the anti-Trump energy within the party — and the near-iconic status enjoyed by the likes of Warren and Sanders — party leaders hewed to the center once again.The left needs to do some serious thinking about how it can exert more real power in future.DreamersFor all the sound and fury, DACA beneficiaries are no closer, in substantive terms, to a deal that would allow them to remain in the United States legally. The prospects of a fix happening at all seem mixed at best. And, with the program due to end on March 5, the Dreamers, who number around 700,000 people, face a nail-biting few weeks.MIXEDPresident TrumpTrump was a winner in the shutdown in the sense that his party got the better part of the final compromise and the government is back up and running. But that happened only after the president’s unpredictability caused consternation among Republicans as well as Democrats.Graham, of South Carolina, lamented at one point that there seemed to be two Trumps — one of whom was much more hard-line on immigration than the other. Graham’s confusion was apparently shared by McConnell, who said last week, “I'm looking for something that President Trump supports. And he's not yet indicated what measure he's willing to sign.” Any victory was also overshadowed by Trump’s reported use of the phrase “shithole countries” during a White House meeting on immigration last week. Beyond the Beltway, that remark will likely prove far more infamous and memorable than any of the actual details of the compromise deal that extended government funding. —Updated at 9:20 p.m.