That legislation is on the agenda for a committee business meeting on Thursday, but an actual vote is expected to be delayed until next week.McConnell said he has no intention of bringing the bill up for a floor vote during an interview with Fox News on Tuesday. "I'm the one who decides what we take to the floor, that's my responsibility as the majority leader, and we will not be having this on the floor of the Senate," he told Fox News.McConnell has argued for months that he doesn't believe legislation protecting the special counsel is necessary. He has said he doesn't believe President TrumpDonald TrumpHillicon Valley — Cyberattack hits Ukrainian defense On The Money — GOP senators block Biden's Fed picks Florida county clerk's typo directed ticketed drivers to site selling Trump merchandise MORE will fire Mueller, despite Trump's public comments and reported attempts to do just that.Grassley sidestepped a question about whether he would urge McConnell to bring up the bill, noting it still needs to get out of committee. He said McConnell has a "terrible job.""But I can't worry about what's going on on the floor. I've just got to do what I can do," he said.With at least GOP Sens. Thom TillisThomas (Thom) Roland TillisThe former Marine taking the fight to veteran suicide Republicans do not have a right to remain silent Trump, hurdles loom for Senate election reform talks MORE (N.C.) and Lindsey GrahamLindsey Olin GrahamThe conservative case for nominating a Black woman to the Supreme Court The Hill's Morning Report - World poised for war Anxious Democrats want Biden to speed up vetting for Supreme Court pick MORE (S.C.) joining Democrats in supporting the bill, it's expected to have the votes to clear the Judiciary Committee next week.But it faces an uphill climb to getting 60 votes in the Senate, much less passing the more conservative House. A bipartisan group of senators introduced legislation last week that would codify that only a senior Justice Department official can fire a special counsel and give Mueller or any other special counsel an "expedited review" of any firing. If a court determines a special counsel wasn't fired for "good cause," the person would be reinstated.