
Government has announced that the number of people who have lost their lives due to the recent riots, has risen to 117. Gauteng and KwaZulu-Natal (KZN) have been the scene of chaos – what started out as semi-violent demonstrations demanding former president Jacob Zuma’s release from prison soon morphed into violent looting sprees targeting malls and other establishments in both provinces. Acting minister in the Presidency Khumbudzo Ntshavheni gave an update on the unrest, on Thursday afternoon, 15 July 2021. “To date, the SAPS have received reports of 26 deaths cumulatively in Gauteng related to the violence, however six (6) bodies were discovered on the roof of Thembisa South mall in Thembisa and inquest has been opened. The communities in Gauteng supporting the Metro municipalities have also started with clean-up campaigns of vandalized facilities,” Ntshavheni said. “Overnight to over 2 hours ago, 39 of incidents have been reported and 392 additional arrests which cumulatively arrests are 1478. Reported deaths that have been verified as linked to the violence are cumulatively 91 in KZN” Government: Authorities engaging stakeholders While for now, the situation seems to have somewhat improved – but some parts of KwaZulu-Natal (KZN) and Gauteng still need serious intervention. Khumbudzo Ntshavheni said the South African Police Service (SAPS) has activated its social crime prevention strategy and engaging with various stakeholders including community based organisations, traditional leaders and the business community. This is to help find solutions to the unrest. “The Government would like to commend the collaboration between the police and community through established platforms such as Community Policing Forums and Community in Blue,” Ntshavheni said. The minister further expressed government’s concern over the economic impact of the riots. “Of key concern is the effect on the supply chain value-chain and movement of goods from Durban and Richards Bay ports to various destinations. The members of the SANDF have been deployed specifically to protect the national key points and SAPS are providing escorts for the transportation of the supplies of oxygen, medicines and other key goods that have to reach all parts of the country,” she said.
