Reviewers from both sides of the aisle flooded a Virginia restaurant’s Facebook and Yelp pages with one- and five-star reviews after a server at the restaurant claimed his boss kicked out White House press secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders.Jaike Foley-Schultz, who says he is a waiter at the Lexington restaurant The Red Hen, posted on Facebook that his boss kicked out the press secretary and her party.“I just served Sarah huckabee sanders for a total of 2 minutes before my owner kicked her out along with 7 of her other family members,” he wrote.The post went viral when the director of Clean Virginia, a left-leaning energy focused nonprofit, shared the post on Twitter, along with a handwritten note purportedly from the restaurant that reads, among other things, “86 — Sara Huckabee Sanders.”“86” is restaurant industry slang meaning “throw out” or “get rid of.”.@PressSec got kicked out of the Red Hen restaurant in Lexington, Va tonight. Apparently the owner didn’t want to serve her and her party out of moral conviction. pic.twitter.com/jr3bfiY3XY— Brennan Gilmore (@brennanmgilmore) June 23, 2018Sanders confirmed the incident in a tweet, saying that the restaurant owner's decision to ask her to leave says "far more about her than about me.""Last night I was told by the owner of Red Hen in Lexington, VA to leave because I work for [President TrumpDonald TrumpHillicon Valley — Cyberattack hits Ukrainian defense On The Money — GOP senators block Biden's Fed picks Florida county clerk's typo directed ticketed drivers to site selling Trump merchandise MORE] and I politely left," Sanders tweeted. "Her actions say far more about her than about me. I always do my best to treat people, including those I disagree with, respectfully and will continue to do so."Last night I was told by the owner of Red Hen in Lexington, VA to leave because I work for @POTUS and I politely left. Her actions say far more about her than about me. I always do my best to treat people, including those I disagree with, respectfully and will continue to do so— Sarah Sanders (@PressSec) June 23, 2018The Red Hen’s Facebook and Yelp pages were soon bombarded with reviews from people on opposite ends of the political spectrum. While some praised the restaurant for taking a stand against the Trump administration, many others blasted the owner for being “intolerant.”“If you are a whining liberal feel free to eat here, if you are a TRUE AMERICAN stay away,” wrote one Facebook reviewer, while another wrote: “Thank you for not serving that liar.”“I won’t spend a dime in this place,” wrote another reviewer. “The owner is a disgusting human being whose absurd liberalism has driven him to lunacy … Let’s hope your ‘moral convictions’ can pay your bills.”One five-star review on Yelp read: “The best. I've heard that they serve crow to those deserving of it.”The report comes just days after two other members of the Trump administration — Homeland Security Secretary Kirstjen NielsenKirstjen Michele NielsenUS to restart 'Remain in Mexico' program following court order Far-left bullies resort to harassing, shaming Kyrsten Sinema — it won't work Ex-Trump official: 'No. 1 national security threat I've ever seen' is GOP MORE and White House senior adviser Stephen Miller — were forced to leave restaurants due to protests of the administration's immigration policies.