Senate Judiciary Committee Democrats are criticizing the FBI over its handling of the tip line in its investigation of the sexual misconduct allegations of now-Supreme Court Justice Brett KavanaughBrett Michael KavanaughManchin would oppose second high court nominee right before 2024 election Advocates fear Supreme Court's Alabama moves could weaken minority protections in VRA Will Republicans apply the 'Barrett rule' to Biden's nominee? MORE. The Democrats, led by Sens. Sheldon WhitehouseSheldon WhitehouseDemocratic Senate debates merits of passion vs. pragmatism Senators introduce a resolution honoring Tom Brady's career Senate panel advances appeals court nominee despite objections from home state Republicans MORE (R.I.) and Chris CoonsChris Andrew CoonsBipartisan group of lawmakers introduce coastal resilience legislation Biden to meet with Senate Judiciary Democrats on Supreme Court vacancy Senate Democrats shift strategy after progressive agenda falters MORE (Del.), wrote a letter to FBI Director Christopher Wray on Wednesday seeking answers after the agency revealed it gathered more than 4,500 tips in relation to its investigation of the claims against Kavanaugh. The lawmakers wrote that revelation “confirms that the FBI’s tip line was a departure from past practice and that the FBI was politically constrained by the Trump White House.” “It also belies the former president’s insistence that his administration did not limit the Bureau’s investigation of Justice Kavanaugh, and his claim that he ‘want[ed] the FBI to interview whoever they [sic] deem appropriate, at their discretion’,” the lawmakers said. Assistant FBI Director Jill Tyson wrote to Whitehouse and Coons on June 30, revealing how many tips the agency received as part of the investigation. Tyson was responding to an August 2019 inquiry, in which Whitehouse and Coons raised concerns that the White House had set limits on the probe. Tyson said Kavanaugh’s nomination was the first the time the FBI had set up a tip line for a nominee undergoing Senate confirmation. She said all “relevant tips” were referred to the Office of the White House Counsel. It was unclear from Tyson’s letter if the FBI followed up on any of the tips. The lawmakers said Tuesday that the details “corroborate and explain numerous credible accounts” of people who said they contacted the FBI with information but were ignored.“If the FBI was not authorized to or did not follow up on any of the tips that it received from the tip line, it is difficult to understand the point of having a tip line at all,” they wrote.Kavanaugh was confirmed in October 2018 despite multiple allegations of sexual misconduct against him, which he has denied.Christine Blasey Ford gave sworn Senate testimony saying that Kavanaugh pinned her to a bed and tried to remove her clothes when they were in high school. Other women later spoke out against him.Whitehouse and Coons were joined by Senate Judiciary Chairman Dick Durban (D-Ill.), Patrick LeahyPatrick Joseph LeahyOn The Money — GOP senators block Biden's Fed picks Negotiators make progress in fiscal 2022 spending talks Senators introduce a resolution honoring Tom Brady's career MORE (D-Vt.), Richard Blumenthal (D-Conn.), Mazie HironoMazie Keiko HironoBiden to meet with Senate Judiciary Democrats on Supreme Court vacancy Will Republicans apply the 'Barrett rule' to Biden's nominee? Confirmation bias: The fighting has already begun, and Biden hasn't even named a nominee MORE (D-Hawaii), and Cory BookerCory BookerCory Booker and Rosario Dawson have reportedly split Schumer asks for input as Democrats finalize cannabis bill Bass would move hundreds of LAPD officers from desk jobs into patrols if elected mayor MORE (D-N.J.) 