         Conversations around the Thanksgiving table can get intense. One expert suggests being prepared for them by setting parameters. (PeopleImages/Getty Images)     Some family members might be dreading Thanksgiving dinner because of the hot topics that could be served along with the turkey and trimmings.  Will that political argument come up between this uncle and that cousin? What about when Grandma and Aunt Norma’s cooking conversation turns from sharing recipes to arguing about whose is best? Or perhaps you’ve run out of polite ways to end conversations about when you’re ever going to have children.  “Leading up to these holidays, we spend a lot of time thinking about what the conversation’s going to be, but all we’re doing is dreading it,” said Rae Kyritsi, programs director at the Center for Conflict Resolution. “That mental resource is better spent thinking about, ‘How do I want this conversation to go, and what can I do to make it go that way?’”  Kyritsi said, “If you go into a difficult conversation with the story that’s going to prove the other person wrong, you’re not going to get anywhere.” The organization’s advice centers around preparedness, and that doesn’t mean bringing bullet points to change someone’s mind; it means preparing for a productive conversation and knowing what drives you crazy.   “We all, if we’re paying attention, know what’s going to get our goat,” she said. “If you have thought in advance about what’s important and what you would like to say, and what you would like to know, then these conversations will go better.”  Here are five phrases that can help de-escalate an argument.   1. “I want to spend this time on what’s going on with you.” If you do not want to discuss charged topics, explain that you’d like to hear updates about your relatives, their children, their family, says Cassie Lively, the center’s executive director. She says you can approach this while at the same time acknowledging your strong feelings. Say something like, “I’ve got a lot of opinions about what’s going on right now, too, but I’d rather spend time on our relationship than what’s going on politically.”  2. “I don’t want to talk about guns until after dessert.” Set parameters, says Kyritsi. Perhaps you don’t want to dig into conversations until you’ve, at least, finished appetizers. Say clearly that you prefer not to discuss something right at that moment. Another option might be, “I’m so glad you brought that up. I would love to talk to you about this more and create a space to try and have a conversation that’s productive and not just a debate. Perhaps after pumpkin pie?”  3. “Tell me more why that’s important to you.” Instead of volleying back a fact or figure, ask about the experiences, or values, that led to an opinion. “I try to come in with an attitude of curiosity,” Lively said. Aim to find out what’s underneath a position — is it fear, or pride, or something else? And make sure to listen. For example, Kyritsi and her sister disagree on some parts of the gun debate. But when they shift the conversation to things that are important to them — and this is where you talk about values instead of bullet points — they agree more. “We think people should have them to hunt, we think access should be restricted when people are dangerous, we think certain types of weapons shouldn’t be accessible to everyone,” she said. “When we talk about values, we are on the same page, but when we fight about the Second Amendment, it’s a nightmare.” A follow-up question could be, “How could we get this value met that could work for both of us?”  4. “I need to check on the sweet potatoes.” Sometimes, you just need to take a break. This one, Kyritsi admits, can be tough to implement. Sometimes when a conversation is heated, she feels it’s just getting good. But it’s always OK to step away — and the many tasks included with Thanksgiving provide ample opportunity. “It’s hard to remember that,” Kyritsi said. “And it’s hard to not be insulted when the other person needs a break.”  5. “This doesn’t feel productive.” Having difficult conversations, Kyritsi believes, almost always ends with both parties stronger, as long as it feels as though the discussion is moving forward. But sometimes the usefulness of a conversation ebbs — or isn’t present from the beginning. Warning signs of this are not what most people might assume. Yelling, for example, might be more common in some families. But pay attention to when you’re saying the same thing over and over. “Repetition is a strong indicator that nothing’s getting done,” Kyritsi said. So is the feeling of being so upset you can’t articulate what you want to say. “That’s a good time to bow out.” Again, bring it back to relationships. “I wanted to talk to you about this, but I really want it to be productive, and this doesn’t feel productive. And so I’d like us to stop talking about it.”  abowen@chicagotribune.com     Thanksgiving       