President TrumpDonald TrumpHillicon Valley — Cyberattack hits Ukrainian defense On The Money — GOP senators block Biden's Fed picks Florida county clerk's typo directed ticketed drivers to site selling Trump merchandise MORE on Monday suggested the government start its own television network as he voiced frustration with the way CNN in particular has covered his administration."Throughout the world, CNN has a powerful voice portraying the United States in an unfair and false way. Something has to be done, including the possibility of the United States starting our own Worldwide Network to show the World the way we really are, GREAT!" Trump wrote on Twitter.....and false way. Something has to be done, including the possibility of the United States starting our own Worldwide Network to show the World the way we really are, GREAT!— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) November 26, 2018Voice of America (VOA) has existed since 1942 and receives funding from Congress. The network's broadcasts are streamed in the U.S. and internationally.Trump's background in television prior to entering politics led to reports during the 2016 presidential campaign that he would start his own television network if he lost to Democratic nominee Hillary ClintonHillary Diane Rodham ClintonRight wing criticizes media for lack of coverage on Durham probe Liberal activists need to level with their base Document dump turns toxic for Trump MORE.Trump denied to The Washington Post in September of 2016 that he had discussed launching a media network, calling the speculation a "false rumor."The Financial Times reported in October 2016 that Trump's son-in-law, Jared KushnerJared Corey KushnerTrump creates new Jan. 6 headaches for GOP Donald Trump slams Jan. 6 panel after Ivanka Trump interview request: 'They'll go after children' Kushner investment firm raises more than B: report MORE, had informally spoken with a media executive about setting up a Trump television network, but the conversations did not progress in the final weeks of the campaign.Since taking office, Trump has continued to rail against coverage of his administration, labeling stories he dislikes "fake news." He has in recent months ratcheted up his attacks against the press, labeling some outlets and reporters "enemies of the people."Trump has had a contentious relationship with CNN in particular since hitting the campaign trail in 2015. Chants of "CNN sucks" are commonplace at the president's campaign rallies.The White House earlier this month revoked CNN correspondent Jim Acosta's press credentials following a heated press conference with Trump.CNN and Acosta sued the administration for violating the reporter's First and Fifth Amendment rights, and a federal judge ordered the White House to restore his credentials.--Updated at 3:40 p.m.