KEY POINTSThe birthday event was held at Martha's Vineyard on Saturday nightGuests who uploaded photos of the event were forced to remove their postsThe Obamas previously said they would scale back their guest listSocial media users are slamming former President Barack Obama after he was seen dancing without a mask at his 60th birthday party in Martha’s Vineyard on Saturday night. Rapper Trap Beckham and his manager, TJ Chapman, posted photos taken from the celebrity-packed event, including pictures showing themselves smoking marijuana, which is legal in Massachusetts.Erykah Badu, an American singer-songwriter, also posted video footage on her Instagram story that showed the former president grooving on the dance floor without wearing a face mask, as reported by the New York Post.The guests were later forced to delete the photos from their social media platforms under the event’s photography ban, the report said.“Had to delete everything due to the rules,” Beckham said. “It was epic for sure. If any videos surface it’s going viral. He danced the whole time. Nobody ever seen Obama like this before.”News of Obama’s 60th birthday bash sparked criticism from social media users who took to Twitter to air out their frustration. 
“Americans unable to see their dying relatives. Kids forced to unscientifically mask up at schools. Millions of jobs closed because of the mandates. All *forced* by our elites. The same elites parting maskless at Obama’s rager,” wrote Kyle Kashuv, a 20-year-old American conservative activist and survivor of the 2018 Parkland school shooting. “The entire mainstream media colluded to lie to the American people and pretend that Obama was scaling back his party. He didn’t. He went all in, maskless, inside,” author and founder of Blexit organization Candance Owens said. “If Obama can have HUNDREDS of UNMASKED people over for a birthday party, then regular people shouldn’t have to wear masks either. The liberal “elite” LOVE making rules that they can’t follow themselves. There’s ZERO science behind mask mandates - just politics!” Rep. Ronny Jackson, R-Texas, wrote. According to the guidance from the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, events may be held in open-air tents. It is unclear whether Obama’s birthday party was held in an open-air tent or an enclosed 4-wall tent. The Obamas previously said they would scale back their guest list as the number of COVID-19 cases caused by the more contagious Delta variant climb across the country.The party’s celebrity guests included Jay-Z, Beyonce, Steven Spielberg, Bradley Cooper, Don Cheadle, Steven Colbert, and Tom and Rita Hanks, as reported by Fox News.  Former U.S. President Barack Obama speaks during a get-out-the-vote rally at the Cox Pavilion as he campaigns for Nevada Democratic candidates on October 22, 2018 in Las Vegas, Nevada. Early voting in Clark County, Nevada began on October 20 and has recorded the highest turnout during the first two days of early voting in a midterm election. Photo: Getty Images/Ethan Miller © Copyright IBTimes 2022. All rights reserved.