After more than two hours on the floor, senators weren’t able to get a deal to wrap up the bill on Thursday night or agree on quickly moving to final passage once they reconvene on Saturday. That left some senators visibly frustrated as they departed the Capitol for the night. Senators had hoped to get a deal on anywhere between 16 to 25 additional amendment votes, but that fell apart by the end of the night. Instead they’ll vote to start ending debate on Saturday and have up to 60 hours to burn before final passage.“We very much want to finish this important bill so we will reconvene Saturday at noon to vote on cloture and then we will follow the regular order to finish the bill,” Schumer said.Senators were seen huddling around Sen. Bill Hagerty (R-Tenn.) during Thursday night's hours-long vote as they tried to get him to cut a deal on a package of amendments. "I was asked to consent to expedite the process and pass it. I could not, in good conscience, allow that to happen at this hour—especially when the objective of the majority is to hurry up and pass this bill so that they can move quickly to their $3.5 trillion tax-and-spend spree," Hagerty said in a statement, noting that the Senate just got a Congressional Budget Office Score on Thursday.Schumer and Hagerty had been expected by several senators to try to offer competing schedules on potential amendment votes and block each other's requests; instead, the Senate ended its session with Sen. Kyrsten SinemaKyrsten SinemaSinema has a golden opportunity to stand with small businesses 1 in 4 Democrats say party did not take full advantage of control of power in 2021: poll Black voters are fleeing Biden in droves. Here's why MORE (D-Ariz.) thanking senators for "the work we've done together in a bipartisan fashion."Sen. John ThuneJohn Randolph ThuneOvernight Energy & Environment — Biden says Russia attack could spike oil prices GOP scrambles to figure out what Trump legal drama means for future  Dem plan to suspend the gas tax faces bipartisan pushback MORE (R-S.D.), the No.2 Senate Republican, said the anticlimactic end said "cooler heads prevailed." The inability to get a deal came after leadership called an unrelated vote on a judicial nominee Thursday night to try to get senators back on the floor to see if they could work out a deal that would let them finish the infrastructure bill late Thursday night, or as part of an all-night session that would wrap Friday morning.Senators, however, had low expectations, predicting that the bill would instead finish over the weekend.Asked about the possibility of passing the bill on Thursday night, Thune said earlier Thursday evening that he was “not feeling” it. “If you wanna see final passage, go home,” Thune added.Sen. Josh HawleyJoshua (Josh) David HawleyHawley defends Jan. 6 merch: 'It is not a pro-riot mug' The Hill's 12:30 Report: Signs of de-escalation in Ukraine The Memo: Horizon darkens for Biden on Ukraine MORE (R-Mo.) laughed when asked about the chance of a Thursday night deal. “A bunch of people have holds,” he said.Other senators were spotted leaving the Capitol, indicating that they were going home for the night.Senators pointed to a few last sticking points that were slowing down a final deal, including a push by Sen. Shelby (R-Ala.) and other Republicans to add roughly $50 billion in defense infrastructure into the bill.Sens. Rob PortmanRobert (Rob) Jones PortmanSenators eye Plan B amid Russia sanctions stalemate Putin's Ukraine gambit unites Western democracies he sought to divide Josh Mandel tests Ohio's appetite for red meat rhetoric MORE (R-Ohio) and Mark WarnerMark Robert WarnerDem plan to suspend the gas tax faces bipartisan pushback Psaki calls Republicans 'irresponsible' for blocking Biden's Fed nominees Senate leaders send Putin symbolic warning shot amid invasion fears MORE (D-Va.) were also battling with Sens. Pat ToomeyPatrick (Pat) Joseph ToomeyOvernight Health Care — Biden eyes additional COVID-19 funding Senate confirms Biden FDA nominee Late-night reports suggest CIA collecting more data on Americans MORE (R-Pa.), Ron WydenRonald (Ron) Lee WydenSenate confirms Biden FDA nominee Biden's FDA pick clears key Senate hurdle This week: Confirmation fight over Biden's FDA nominee comes to a head MORE (D-Ore.) and Cynthia LummisCynthia Marie LummisSenate Republicans urge DOJ to reject request for 'no fly' list for unruly passengers Toomey presses Fed bank on whether Raskin lobbied for special access GOP senator: .5 million private sector payout to Biden nominee 'doesn't smell right' MORE (R-Wyo.) over cryptocurrency policy, with competing amendments over who would be exempt from the bill’s tax provisions. “I think we’re at an impasse,” Toomey told reporters.The White House on Thursday night came out in favor of the Portman-Warner amendment, wading into the Senate battle.“We are grateful to Chairman Wyden for his leadership in pushing the Senate to address this issue, however we believe that the alternative amendment put forward by Senators Warner, Portman, and Sinema strikes the right balance and makes an important step forward in promoting tax compliance,” said Andrew Bates, a spokesman for the White House.Wyden fired back, saying in a statement that the Warner-Portman proposal “provides a government-sanctioned safe harbor for the most climate-damaging form of crypto tech, called proof-of-work.”Updated: Aug. 6, 12:40 a.m.