Rep. Eric SwalwellEric Michael SwalwellPelosi leading congressional delegation to Israel, Germany, UK Arizona Senate candidate releases Super Bowl ad showing armed 'showdown' with Dem leaders The Super Bowl of hypocrisy comes to California as the homeless get hidden MORE (D-Calif.) has officially jumped into the 2020 presidential race.The California Democrat will announce his candidacy on "The Late Show with Stephen Colbert" on Monday night.The show tweeted out a video clip of Swalwell making the announcement after speaking on what he considers to be some of the problems in the current administration.“I see a country in quicksand, unable to solve problems and threats from abroad, unable to make life better for people here at home,” Swalwell told Colbert.“I’m ready to solve these problems. I’m running for president of the United States.” Swalwell added. “Boy, did it feel good to say that.” TONIGHT: California Representative @EricSwalwell announces on @colbertlateshow that he is running for President! #LSSC pic.twitter.com/bvzBPIkSnz— The Late Show (@colbertlateshow) April 8, 2019Swalwell’s entry into an already crowded pool of Democrats vying to take on President TrumpDonald TrumpHillicon Valley — Cyberattack hits Ukrainian defense On The Money — GOP senators block Biden's Fed picks Florida county clerk's typo directed ticketed drivers to site selling Trump merchandise MORE has been anticipated for months. It was reported last week that he plans to center his campaign around gun control.He mentioned gun violence in his appearance on "The Late Show," saying he has spoken to concerned students who "see Washington doing nothing about it after the moments of silence."Swalwell followed the on-air announcement with a video proclaiming, “Let’s go big, be bold, and do good!”Are you ready America? Let's go big, be bold, and do good! pic.twitter.com/gk9SPDT4FN— Eric Swalwell (@ericswalwell) April 8, 2019Swalwell, who previously announced that he would not seek reelection to the House, leaves behind a California district that is likely to stay in Democratic hands. In the 2016 election, Hillary ClintonHillary Diane Rodham ClintonRight wing criticizes media for lack of coverage on Durham probe Liberal activists need to level with their base Document dump turns toxic for Trump MORE won California's 15th district by 25 points.He was one of the first reported candidates for the 2020 race, following a November report in Politico that he would run.The official announcement comes months after the birth of Swalwell’s second child.Updated 7:55 p.m.