 An investigation has been launched after a Texas police officer shot and killed a woman during an arrest after she shouted, "I'm pregnant."The officer from the Baytown Police Department was patrolling the area around The Brixton Apartments on Garth Road on the evening of May 13 when he came across a 45-year-old woman who he recognized as having outstanding warrants.According to the department, the officer then deployed a Taser against the woman while attempting to detain her following a struggle.The woman is alleged to have taken the Taser from the officer while he was attempting to put handcuffs on her and used it against him. The officer then shot at the woman multiple times with his firearm. The woman was later pronounced dead at the scene.Video footage of the incident shared on social media and viewed by Newsweek showed the woman saying, "You're actually harassing me" before being hit with the Taser. As a struggle ensued on the ground over the Taser, the woman shouts "I'm pregnant." Moments later the officer rises up, draws his weapon, and fires five times while the woman is still sat on the ground.The victim's family members were not able to confirm if the woman was pregnant, Click 2 Houston reported. The Baytown Police Department said they will not be able to determine if the 45-year-old was pregnant until a full autopsy has been conducted."It was a sad situation. Tragic. The lady...she did live here. We would often see her, see her walk her dog around," local resident Raquelle Cuellar told ABC 13.The identify of the officer involved in the shooting has not yet being released."This is the first shooting the officer has been involved in," said Lt. Steve Dorris of Baytown Police Department, reported KHOU 11. "We'll be out for some time tonight to reconstruct the events and get questions answered."Dorris confirmed that the officer, an 11-year-veteran of the force, was wearing a body cam at the time. The footage will not immediately be released as the investigation continues, reports CBS. Police are also looking to speak to the person who recorded the incident on their cellphone and shared the footage online."It's unfortunate that someone takes a tragic incident like this and starts posting it on social media," Dorris said. "It's extremely disrespectful for everybody involved. But that's the day and age we live in with social media. It's a tragic event for everybody involved. Our hearts go out to the families of the deceased, as well as our officer."The Harris County District Attorney's Office are assisting with the investigation. The officer involved, who was not seriously hurt during the incident, has since been placed on paid administrative leave as per protocol.  