Speaker Nancy PelosiNancy PelosiUS officials warn diplomatic efforts are 'shrinking' amid Russia-Ukraine tensions Sunday shows: No breakthrough in Russia-Ukraine tensions Pelosi says 'defund the police' is 'not the position of the Democratic Party' MORE (D-Calif.) tapped seven impeachment managers on Wednesday, ending weeks of speculation over who in the House will step into the political spotlight and make the case before the Senate to remove President TrumpDonald TrumpBlack voters are fleeing Biden in droves. Here's why Biden's Super Bowl prediction: 'Loves' Bengals' quarterback, but Rams 'hard to beat' GOP Senate candidate to run 'Let's go Brandon' ad during Super Bowl MORE from office.Some of the newly named managers were considered shoo-ins, including House Intelligence Committee Chairman Adam SchiffAdam Bennett SchiffTrump Jan. 6 comments renew momentum behind riot probe Mask rules spark political games and a nasty environment in the House CIA says 'Havana syndrome' unlikely a result of 'worldwide campaign' by foreign power MORE (D-Calif.), whom Pelosi named as lead manager, and Judiciary Committee Chairman Jerrold NadlerJerrold (Jerry) Lewis NadlerUS-China competitiveness bill sparks battle over e-commerce 'Dismantling Democracy' to save it: How Democrats rediscovered the joys of rigging elections Democrats ask for information on specialized Border Patrol teams MORE (D-N.Y.). Both lawmakers had leading roles during the months-long impeachment inquiry last fall into Trump’s contacts with Ukraine.Others picked for the high-profile role were also widely considered to be leading candidates, including Democratic Reps. Hakeem JeffriesHakeem Sekou JeffriesPelosi won't say if she'll run for Speaker again if Democrats win: 'That's not a question' Democrats accuse GOP of 'race-baiting' with court pick attacks Democratic campaign chief vows return to normalcy MORE (N.Y.), chairman of the House Democratic Caucus; Val DemingsValdez (Val) Venita DemingsTexas rabbi held hostage tells lawmakers houses of worship need more security funding Spielberg, Jennifer Garner, Mark Ruffalo among Senate Dems' big donors for 2022 Michelle Obama: Democrats' 2024 'break glass in case of emergency' candidate MORE (Fla.), a member of both the Judiciary and Intelligence panels; and Zoe LofgrenZoe Ellen LofgrenStock ban faces steep hurdles despite growing support Pelosi backs ban on stock trading in Congress US-China competitiveness bill sparks battle over e-commerce MORE (Calif.), a senior member of the Judiciary panel and the only member of Congress to have participated in both the Nixon and Clinton impeachments.The final two picks — Reps. Sylvia GarciaSylvia GarciaHouse passes bill to prohibit age discrimination against job applicants Democrats want to bolster working women, but face tortuous choices The Hill's Morning Report - Presented by Alibaba - Gears begin to shift in Congress on stalled Biden agenda MORE (Texas), and Jason CrowJason CrowOvernight Defense & National Security — US, Germany unite in face of Russian threat CO lawmakers ask DOJ to investigate police's knowledge about alleged shooter Democrats look back on Jan. 6 with emotion MORE (Colo.) — were something of a surprise. Both are freshmen, and Crow, a former Army Ranger, does not sit on any of the six committees with jurisdiction over impeachment. In making the announcement, Pelosi touted the legal bona fides of her picks, saying their experience before entering Congress was an outsize factor in her decisionmaking. "The emphasis is on litigators; the emphasis is on comfort level in the courtroom,” Pelosi said during the press conference. “The emphasis is on making the strongest possible case to protect and defend our Constitution.”Today, I have the privilege of naming the Managers of the impeachment trial of the President. #DefendOurDemocracy pic.twitter.com/Y2613Ni3pC— Nancy Pelosi (@SpeakerPelosi) January 15, 2020The announcement comes just hours before the House will vote on a resolution to send the two articles of impeachment to the Senate. Passed by the House on Dec. 18, the articles accuse Trump of abusing his power in his dealings with Ukraine, then obstructing Congress as Democrats sought to investigate the episode. Wednesday’s vote to transmit the articles, scheduled for the afternoon, launches a series of procedures leading up to the Senate trial, which is expected to begin formally as early as next Tuesday. At 5 p.m., Pelosi will formalize the resolution with an engrossment ceremony in an august, wood-paneled room adjacent to the House chamber. Immediately afterward, the House managers will walk the articles physically across the Capitol to the Senate, where GOP leaders will be waiting to accept them. The process ends a weeks-long standoff between the two chambers, as Pelosi had withheld the articles in an effort to pressure Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnellAddison (Mitch) Mitchell McConnellRepublicans take cheap shots at Fed nominees Republicans do not have a right to remain silent White House uses GOP's own rhetoric to rebut Supreme Court criticisms MORE (R-Ky.) to agree to open the trial phase to new evidence and witness testimony — an undertaking McConnell has rejected as superfluous. Since the House vote, however, new evidence has emerged linking Trump directly to the campaign, spearheaded by his personal lawyer Rudy GiulianiRudy GiulianiKinzinger says he expects Giuliani to cooperate with Jan. 6 committee Giuliani in discussions with Jan. 6 committee about testifying: report Michigan prosecutor says Giuliani asked him to get voting machines, pass them to Trump allies MORE, to press Ukrainian leaders to find dirt on the president’s political rivals. In another twist, John BoltonJohn BoltonTrump, Pence avoid going scorched-earth Overnight Defense & National Security — Inside the US raid that killed an ISIS leader Putin's effort to split NATO may depend on Germany MORE — Trump’s former national security adviser who had refused to testify in the House investigation — has offered to do so if subpoenaed by the Senate. The day before the vote, Democrats on the Intelligence panel also released new information on Lev Parnas, a close associate of Giuliani’s.Parnas, who is seeking immunity for his testimony, turned over text messages, notes and other communications he had with Giuliani and other Trump officials, which further highlighted efforts to push out former U.S. Ambassador to Ukraine Marie YovanovitchMarie YovanovitchBiden awaiting approval from Ukraine on ambassador selection: report Giuliani hires attorneys who defended Harvey Weinstein The Hill's Morning Report - Presented by Emergent BioSolutions - Facebook upholds Trump ban; GOP leaders back Stefanik to replace Cheney MORE and dig up dirt on former Vice President Joe BidenJoe BidenCory Booker and Rosario Dawson have reportedly split US ups estimate of Russian forces on Ukraine border to 130,000 Harris heads to Munich at pivotal moment MORE and his son. Democrats have been quick to highlight those developments. And Pelosi noted that her gamble to delay sending the two articles of impeachment to the Senate to demand witnesses in the trial has proved beneficial, ticking through the new information that has come to light during that time."Time has been our friend in all of this," she said. “This further evidence insists … that there be witnesses and that we see documentation.”Schiff and Nadler also defended their strategy: both the decision to vote on the articles before Christmas and the subsequent judgment to withhold them from the Senate for a month. "It's been very effective," Schiff said. "And as you've seen, additional evidence continues to come to light that not only has bolstered an already overwhelming case, but has also put additional pressure ... on the Senate to conduct a fair trial." Nadler piled on, saying Democrats acted with some urgency last year to deter Trump from interfering in his reelection contest in November. "Some people said: 'Well, let the election take care of it.’ He's trying to cheat in that election,” Nadler said. “So it is essential that we bring this impeachment to stop the president ... from rigging the next election."— Updated at 11:38 a.m.