Sen. Rand PaulRandal (Rand) Howard PaulSen. Rand Paul on trucker convoys protesting in US: 'I'm all for it' House passes stopgap bill to prevent shutdown Rand Paul: Dropping COVID-19 restrictions spreading beyond partisan lines MORE (R-Ky.) on Thursday will try to force Supreme Court Chief Justice John Roberts to read out loud a question regarding the anonymous whistleblower at the center of the impeachment inquiry.Paul’s strategy, outlined on Twitter by his spokesman, will escalate a standoff between the two men on the Senate floor after much behind-the-scenes haggling.“Senator Paul will insist on his question being asked during today’s trial. Uncertain of what will occur on the Senate floor, but American people deserve to know how this all came about,” Sergio Gor, a spokesman for Paul, tweeted.Paul’s office indicated in a subsequent release that they were unsure whether the effort would be successful, but said “Paul believes it is crucial the American people get the full story on what started the Democrats’ push to impeach President Donald Trump.”A source confirmed Wednesday that Roberts has indicated he would not read a question from Paul regarding the whistleblower.The question from Paul is expected to name the individual. Because Roberts is responsible for reading the questions aloud, that would put him in the position of publicly outing the person on the floor of the Senate.The whistleblower has been a focus of GOP criticism for months, with President TrumpDonald TrumpBlack voters are fleeing Biden in droves. Here's why Biden's Super Bowl prediction: 'Loves' Bengals' quarterback, but Rams 'hard to beat' GOP Senate candidate to run 'Let's go Brandon' ad during Super Bowl MORE last year saying the individual was "close to a spy."Conservatives used a series of questions on Wednesday to try to shed new information on the whistleblower.GOP Sens. Mike LeeMichael (Mike) Shumway LeeInvestigators find gaps in White House phone records from Jan. 6: report Senate panel advances controversial bill aimed at protecting children online House passes stopgap bill to prevent shutdown MORE (Utah), Ted CruzRafael (Ted) Edward CruzThe allure of 'strong and wrong' GOP faces hurdles in blocking a Biden Iran deal White House uses GOP's own rhetoric to rebut Supreme Court criticisms MORE (Texas) and Josh HawleyJoshua (Josh) David HawleyHawley endorses candidate to succeed fellow Missouri Sen. Blunt Stock ban faces steep hurdles despite growing support The Senate confirmation scandal is a liability to US foreign relations MORE (Mo.) asked for details on who the whistleblower might have worked with.Roughly 50 minutes later, Cruz, Hawley and Sen. Jerry MoranGerald (Jerry) MoranThe Hill's Morning Report - Dems juggling priorities amid new challenge NCAA surprise leaves states rethinking college athlete pay rules Top Biden official says information classification system undermines national security, public trust MORE (R-Kan.) asked the House managers if the whistleblower worked for or with former Vice President Joe BidenJoe BidenCory Booker and Rosario Dawson have reportedly split US ups estimate of Russian forces on Ukraine border to 130,000 Harris heads to Munich at pivotal moment MORE.None of those questions revealed the individual's identity. Some GOP senators indicated they were not supportive of questions that would name the whistleblower.Sen. John ThuneJohn Randolph ThuneMcConnell-McCarthy split heading into November Stock trading ban gains steam but splits Senate GOP Questions loom over how to form congressional staff union MORE (S.D.), the No. 2 Republican senator, suggested that GOP leadership had not been involved in rejecting questions, but that he did not expect the whistleblower to be named on the floor during the impeachment trial."I don't think that happens, and I guess I would hope that it doesn't," he told reporters Wednesday.Sen. Lindsey GrahamLindsey Olin GrahamUS officials warn diplomatic efforts are 'shrinking' amid Russia-Ukraine tensions Sunday shows: No breakthrough in Russia-Ukraine tensions Graham says Trump 'hurting his chances' at reelection by focusing on 2020 MORE (R-S.C.) told reporters on Thursday that he didn’t think the impeachment trial was the setting for Paul’s whistleblower fight. “Not in this environment,” he said, asked if he thought the question was a good idea.