 Four Democratic candidates will take the stage in New Hampshire on Wednesday to make a final pitch to voters ahead of the state's primary contest next week.Former Vice President Joe Biden, Massachusetts Senator Elizabeth Warren, tech entrepreneur Andrew Yang and billionaire Tom Steyer will participate in back-to-back town hall events hosted by CNN.The cable news network will host a total of eight town halls with presidential candidates over the next two days at Saint Anselm College in Manchester, New Hampshire. The events will kick off at 8 p.m. ET each night and will be aired on CNN, CNN.com and the network's mobile apps.During the second night, voters will hear from Vermont Senator Bernie Sanders, Minnesota Senator Amy Klobuchar, former Massachusetts Governor Deval Patrick and former South Bend, Indiana mayor Pete Buttigieg. CNN said invitations were "extended to candidates who qualify to participate in the Democratic National Committee-sanctioned debate," which will be on Friday, February 7.The town halls will take place less than a week before New Hampshire residents cast their vote for their preferred presidential nominee. The state's early-voting primary is scheduled for Tuesday, February 11.The latest polls of the battleground state show Sanders leading the pack. According to a Boston Globe/Suffolk University survey released on Monday, the Vermont senator had 24 percent support among likely primary voters. Biden and Warren rounded out the top three slots, earning 18 percent and 13 percent support respectively.During the town halls, candidates will take questions directly from the audience as well as from a CNN moderator. Some recent events the Democrats are likely to be quizzed on include impeachment and the Iowa caucuses.
Supporters cheer on Democratic presidential hopeful Senator Elizabeth Warren at a rally outside the New Hampshire State House on November 13, 2019. Warren, along with Joe Biden, Andrew Yang and Tom Steyer, will take place in a CNN town hall in New Hampshire on Wednesday, February 5.
Joseph Prezioso/AFP/Getty Images
Iowa's first-in-the-nation caucuses melted down on Monday night due to issues with a new voting application system, which delayed the release of results. The problem stemmed from a "coding issue" in the app that party officials hoped would streamline reporting of the process.Wednesday's town halls will also take place just hours after the Senate is due to vote on whether or not Trump should be removed from office. The vote will bring an end to a weeks-long trial, during which senators heard from House impeachment managers and the president's defense team on the issue of impeachment.Trump is nearly guaranteed to be acquitted on Wednesday, as Democrats are nowhere near close enough to the 20 Republican votes they'd need to remove him from office. Biden, Warren, Yang and Steyer have all supported the president's impeachment.Warren said in New Hampshire on Tuesday that she would consider voting to censure Trump over his conduct with Ukraine. She also predicted that Republicans in the Senate would acquit the president."It appears that tomorrow they are going to prove that their loyalty to a single person is higher than their loyalty to the Constitution of the United States," Warren said during the campaign stop. "That is fundamentally wrong, and that is why we all need to be in this fight and get out there and vote."  