As grandparents we wonder whether to recommend that our grandchildren, ages 2 to 7, get COVID-19 vaccinations. Vaccines for children 5 to 11 will soon be available under Emergency Use Authorization, and a vaccine will probably be ready the next few months for those younger.We are not alone in questioning whether our grandkids should get the shots. A Kaiser Family Foundation survey in August showed that roughly one-quarter of parents of children aged 5 to 11 would vaccinate their children “right away,” 40% said they would “wait and see” how the vaccine worked before doing so, and 25% said they would not have their child vaccinated.Pfizer and BioNTech submitted data last month to the Food and Drug Administration that the companies say shows their coronavirus vaccine in low doses is safe and effective in children ages 5 to 11. They studied 2,200 participants in that age group, and the FDA is analyzing this data in considering an Emergency Use Authorization that could come as early as Halloween. Then, 28 million children would be eligible for the vaccine, in addition to the 17 million aged 12 to 15 that became eligible in May, half of whom have been vaccinated.Another View:Pediatrician and Iowa Immunizes chair: Reasons aplenty for kids to get a COVID-19 vaccineTo answer our children’s concerns about vaccinating our grandkids, we have to address four questions: Is it effective, is it safe, is it necessary, and how will it affect the pandemic for others? These are questions the FDA and Centers for Disease Control advisory panels on vaccines are examining.More:Pfizer's COVID vaccine appears safe and effective for children 5-11, new data showsIs it effective?It is important to remember that vaccines are administered to otherwise healthy people and we should be extra careful with children who can’t give informed consent like adults. That is why vaccines are among the most rigorously tested and safest medical products on the market and why it has taken 10 years or more and about $1 billion in the past to make each new one available to the public. The speed of Operation Warp Speed in getting COVID-19 vaccines to the public is built on technology developed in just the past few years.Earlier this year, of the U.S. children ages 12 to 15 whom Pfizer studied, half were given the vaccine, the other half a placebo. A week after the second shot there were no COVID-19 cases in the vaccine group but 16 cases in the 978 children in the placebo group. This suggested a very effective vaccine in this age group. The children who received the vaccine had similar side effects as adults, such as arm soreness, fatigue, headaches, chills fever and joint pain. Many had no side effects. Is it safe?There have been a few cases of inflammation of the heart and around the heart — myocarditis and pericarditis — particularly in males and young adults age 16 and older a few days after vaccination. Reports are rare. It is estimated this occurs about 4.8 times per million doses. Nobody has died and the problem usually resolves in a few weeks. A review in the Aug. 4 Journal of the American Medical Association suggests that while the temporal association does not prove causation, the short time between vaccination and myocarditis onset lends support to a possible relationship. On a separate issue, there are no peer reviewed reports on the COVID-19 vaccines causing fertility problems in women.Is it necessary?The question of necessity is the hardest to answer. The calculations change, as we are going through a spike in cases thanks in part to a delta variant that is more infectious. The school year started largely in person. Thankfully, the delta variant does not seem more deadly and the vaccines seem to be nearly as effective against it.Kids are relatively safe from COVID-19. We have known this for well over 18 months. From the beginning, the data from China was clear that COVID-19 did not significantly threaten most children. Some pediatric hospitals are now experiencing increasing hospitalizations, but we also have a big surge in another respiratory virus, RSV, accounting for more than half of admissions and ICU cases. RSV preventive medicine is only given only to high-risk babies.More:Children sick with COVID and other bugs flooded hospitals in the fall. Doctors worry what winter will bring.As of mid-October, over the course of this pandemic, 558 U.S. children have died of COVID-19. About three-fourths of them had underlying conditions. This is less than half the number that have died from pneumonia in that time period. In this time period, 49,000 Americans under the age of 18 died of all causes. Fewer children died of COVID-19 than of heart disease, cancer, suicide, homicide, or birth defects. Of the 600,000-plus Americans who have died of COVID, only 0.05% are under the age of 18 from a population of more than 20% of the country.There have been 56,000 confirmed child cases in Iowa as of Sept. 16, not counting the cases which have been too mild or asymptomatic to be tested. The Iowa Department of Public Health reports that, out of about 6,600 total COVID-19 deaths of all ages in Iowa only three under the age of 5 have died from Covid-19. I suspect that if any Iowa K-12 student had died of COVID, there would have been massive publicity. The 18-to-29 age group sustained 17 deaths. I know of no college student in Iowa who has died of COVID-19. It is true that due to school reopening and the more infectious delta variant, there is an increase in diagnosed infections and hospitalizations in children. We should celebrate that the risk to children from COVID-19 is so small! How will it affect the pandemic for others?What about the risk of children infecting others? Prior to vaccines, there was a case to be made for keeping children from infecting the elderly. That changed with vaccines. Today every state is near or above 80% of its over-65 population vaccinated. Three states have vaccinated over 95% of their elderly. Vaccines aren’t perfect; there are some breakthrough cases of the vaccinated. For the vaccinated without serious underlying conditions, those who contract COVID usually have mild or asymptomatic courses. My verdictThe mortality risk of COVID in children is very small, but the vaccine is effective, and the preliminary data show that the risk of a bad complication of the vaccine is very small, too Getting vaccinated can reduce the chance that children transmit the virus to others, though adults can largely protect themselves by getting vaccinated. As of August, 182.5 million Americans have been vaccinated.If we had a grandchild with an underlying condition such as diabetes, cardiac congenital anomalies, epilepsy, obesity and asthma, we would recommend the vaccine to their parents. Some parents are going to consider getting their children vaccinated primarily to reduce their children from getting the disease, which could mean two weeks out of school, virtual learning, and time away from work for the parents. This is a valid consideration as long as the risk from the vaccine is almost nil. Parents will need to evaluate what the CDC determines on its EUA decision.Parents should discuss vaccination of their children with their family doctor or pediatrician. Finally, it should be noted that Merck and Co. announced recently that its experimental COVID-19 pill, molnupiravir, which interferes with an enzyme that the virus uses to reproduce itself, reduced hospitalizations and deaths by half in people recently infected with the coronavirus. Merck will soon ask the U.S. and the world to authorize its use. If this pill proves as effective as reported, reduced morality to those who get sick will also need to be factored into the decision to vaccinate the young. When it comes to children, this decision is not a slam dunk.Dr. Greg Ganske is a retired surgeon and former Iowa member of Congress who served on the committee with jurisdiction over the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention and National Institutes of Health.