The Trump campaign team sent out an email Thursday offering "Let's Go Brandon" T-shirts in return for any campaign donation of $45 or more. The email reads in part: "You’ve probably heard it being chanted anywhere patriotic Americans get together. Well now, President TrumpDonald TrumpHillicon Valley — Cyberattack hits Ukrainian defense On The Money — GOP senators block Biden's Fed picks Florida county clerk's typo directed ticketed drivers to site selling Trump merchandise MORE has put America’s favorite new phrase on a custom shirt. That’s right. President Trump has just authorized the release of his brand-new, limited-edition 'LET’S GO BRANDON' shirts."The email goes on to say that the T-shirt is in "high demand," and is stated in the email as being "low stock." The email advertises it by stating, "Whether you’re at a concert, football game, or just out for a walk in the park, you’re probably going to hear someone say 'LET’S GO BRANDON.' Now you can have a shirt to match."The viral phrase "let's go Brandon" first came into popularity at a NASCAR race in Alabama, according to ABC 4. It was initially used in reference to NASCAR driver Brandon Brown, but when people chant or type "Brandon," they are not usually actually cheering for the NASCAR racer, according to ABC 4.The phrase went viral after Brown was interviewed by Kelli Stavas. In the background of the interview, the crowd in the stands was chanting a political statement: "f--- Joe BidenJoe BidenUS could spend M monthly on testing unvaccinated federal workers: official GOP senator opposes Biden court pick, likely blocking nominee Overnight Energy & Environment — Biden says Russia attack could spike oil prices MORE," ABC 4 reports. That was not what Kelli Stavas heard, however, according to ABC 4. “As you can hear the chants from the crowd — ‘Let’s go, Brandon,'” Stavas incorrectly stated while speaking with Brown, ABC 4 reports. Since then, the meme has taken off, spreading across social media and being mentioned by high-ranking politicians. South Carolina Rep. Jeff DuncanJeffrey (Jeff) Darren DuncanConservatives push for boycott of GOP club over DC vaccine mandate Rep. Boebert does her version of Ocasio-Cortez's Met dress: 'Let's Go Brandon' Trump campaign sells 'Let's Go Brandon' T-shirts MORE (R) posted a picture of his "Let's Go Brandon" apparel on his Facebook page. Texas Governor Greg AbbottGreg AbbottPoll finds Abbott with 10-point lead on Beto O'Rourke in Texas O'Rourke on past remarks about taking guns: 'Not interested in taking anything from anyone' Texas National Guard soldier assigned to border dies in accidental shooting MORE (R) tweeted about the phrase. Let's Go Brandon!From the record levels of inflation to the crisis at our southern border, Americans are fed up with Biden's dangerous, liberal policies. pic.twitter.com/9ALkW1WFeg— Greg Abbott (@GregAbbott_TX) October 22, 2021According to the Miami Herald, a rapper has also released a "Let's Go Brandon" rap song. The song has been topping iTunes charts for days on end. 