        A crescent Moon rises in Namibia.     Jamie Carter   
This week it’s a New Moon. 
The moment when the Moon is between Earth and the Sun sees the far side of the Moon illuminated. During this time—marked at precisely 3:27 a.m. Coordinated Universal Time (UTC) on Thursday, April 23, 2020—no-one on Earth can see anything of the Moon.  
However, a few hours after New Moon, when our satellite has moved away from that point in space between the Earth and Sun, its limb is suddenly lit-up, as seen from Earth. The result is a super-slim crescent Moon. When that’s sighted by eagle-eyed observers on Earth, it signals the beginning of something significant this month—Ramadan, the month-long sunrise-to-sunset fast observed by devout Muslims all over the world.          The sighting of a crescent moon kicks-off Ramadan.     Getty    
When is the New Moon? The exact time of New Moon is 3:27 a.m. Coordinated Universal Time (UTC) on Thursday, April 23, 2020, which translates to:    4:30 a.m. in London on April 23  23:30 p.m. in New York City on April 22  20:30 p.m. in Los Angeles on April 22    When is Ramadan? 
When does Ramadan start? The decisive first sighting of the young Moon could be on Thursday, April 23, 2020, since the young Moon will have moved every so slightly away from the Sun by the time of sunset. However, it’s still going to be very close to the Sun, and since it will also only 1% lit, it could be too difficult to find. So that the first sighting of the young Moon will probably occur just after sunset on Friday, April 24, 2020—so that’s probably going to be when Ramadan begins.  
However, since some countries and cultures begin Ramadan when the crescent Moon is first sighted, others use a date and time known in advance, such as a the date and time of the New Moon. 
MORE FROM FORBESThis Week's 'Shooting Stars' Are The Best Until Fall. Here's How You See 'Fireballs' From HomeBy Jamie CarterWhat about the meteor shower? With the New Moon comes the Lyrid meteor shower, the first major display of “shooting stars” since January’s Quadrantid meteor shower. It peaked just a few night ago, but the lack of moonlight means that anytime this week is ideal for seeing “fireballs” in the night sky after midnight. However, you do need two things; a clear sky and a lot of patience. Expect to see about 10 to 20 Lyrid meteors an hour at the shower’s peak from rural areas, and about half that from light-polluted towns and cities.         CRIMEA, RUSSIA - APRIL 7, 2020: Flowers in bloom against the background of the full moon over the ... [+] Crimean Peninsula. Sergei Malgavko/TASS (Photo by Sergei Malgavko\TASS via Getty Images)    Sergei Malgavko/TASS   
What about the ‘Super Flower Moon?’ 
April’s New Moon also lines-up the “Super Flower Moon,” the fourth and final supermoon of 2020, which will rise in the east around sunset on Thursday, May 7, 2020. It won’t be quite as “super” as last month’s “Super Pink Moon,” but the Moon’s full phase and its perigee—its closest position to Earth this month—are close (perigee is the previous day). When will Ramadan end? The end of Ramadan is also decided astronomically with the sighting of the next young moon. The next New Moon takes place on Friday, May 22 at 17:38 p.m. Universal Co-ordinated Time (UTC). The young moon’s emergence just after sunset either on Friday or, more likely, on Saturday, May 23, will signal the end of Ramadan and the beginning of the festival of Eid al-Fitr, one of two holy days of the year for the Islamic world. The coronavirus epidemic is going to make Ramadan very different this year, but what won’t change is observational astronomy’s integral role. Wishing you clear skies and wide eyes. Follow me on Twitter or LinkedIn. Check out my website or some of my other work here. 