If an area needs to be used for kid and household activities, such as the kitchen table, there are ways to carve out a separate space while still keeping it available for other functions. Novak suggests using painter’s tape to mark out a square on the table where your kid has the freedom to place whatever they need to help them feel comfortable and connected. Just having some delineation of boundaries can give them a sense of agency over their surroundings.Don’t be afraid to go for the nontraditional setup either, even if it’s for school time. Nothing about this global phenomenon is traditional, so there’s no need to re-create a schoolroom setting if that doesn’t work for your child.“Telling parents that the only way they’re going to be successful is if they put their kid at some Pottery Barn desk is ridiculous,” Novak says. “Because the reality is, if that’s a kid who thrives in a physical space where there’s limited noise and limited visual distraction, then maybe sitting on the floor under the dining room table is a great space. The kid loves it and turns it into a fort, and they’re really successful. Then that actually feels really special and fun.”Gear UpIf you don’t already have a device with a camera in it, well, you’ll need one. Laptops are the most obvious choice. They tend to be the most versatile and, with keyboards and cameras built in, require fewer accessories. They’re also typically the most expensive option, although it’s possible to find some great cheap(ish) laptops out there.Mobile gear gets the job done as well. Tablets work great, especially ones designed with kids in mind. A smartphone can work too, even if the screen is too small to do much school work on. It’s a good idea to stabilize your device somehow, so that your kid’s hand doesn’t cramp up and everybody watching doesn’t get motion sickness. You could spend $10 to get an actual phone stand, or you could just prop up the device with books. Heck, slap an adhesive strip on the back of the phone and stick it on the wall. There are no rules in quarantine.If you buy something using links in our stories, we may earn a commission. Learn more.Stay ConnectedThe internet can be as wondrous when it works as it is frustrating when it doesn’t. Video calls get finicky even when everything is working well. Add in another streaming sibling and a couple parents shouting into their own Zooms all day and the signal is bound to get unstable. Wired connections tend to be more reliable. If your kid is using a laptop, try plugging in an ethernet cable instead of depending on wifi. If that’s not an option, check out our guide on how to upgrade your home internet.Light BrightFor better or worse, the whole point of a video chat is that people can see each other. If your kid’s image is dark and blurry, it’s easier to detach and become a wallflower in a sea of faces. Being able to see each other’s bright, well-defined facial expressions can go a long way in making people feel more connected.Try to keep light sources behind the camera, away from the lens. Avoid putting your kid’s back to a window, unless they’re going for that silhouetted witness-protection-program look. If window or lamp light is still too dim, you can try a dedicated clip-on video light to really glam things up.Find Your SoundUnless you want to go mad from the collected shrieks of every other child on the Zoom call, get your kid some headphones. We recommend the $80 Puro Sound BT2200 bluetooth headphones for youngsters. They isolate outside noise and limit the volume to eardrum-safe decibel levels. For cheaper options, check out our guide to the best headphones that won’t eviscerate your wallet.If the quality of your kid’s audio is really important (say they’re lead soprano in a junior acapella group or something), it might be worth investing in a dedicated microphone or even a gaming headset. Either is bound to be better than your laptop mic.Frame the ShotMy WIRED colleague Adrienne So has some excellent advice on how to arrange an A+ video call. In general, advise your kid to keep their face somewhere in the middle of the picture. Take time to figure out the right height and placement for both the device and the child. They should sit or stand eye level with the camera, otherwise everyone else on the call will be staring at your kids’s scalp or straight up their nose.Also consider what else is the frame. By now, you’ve probably seen the embarrassing videos of people who didn’t realize how much background their camera was showing. For better or worse, a video call invites other people into your space.