Breaking|Jun 13, 2020,10:48am EDT|535,765 viewsUpdated Jun 13, 2020, 10:49am EDTTOPLINE
Some states are seeing a dramatic surge in new coronavirus infections even as reopening measures continue across the country, raising tough questions about whether those reopening efforts were premature and how officials will balance maintaining public safety with preventing more economic damage.                Beach on June 10, 2020 in Miami Beach, Florida.       Getty Images   KEY FACTS  Texas and Florida—two of the first states to reopen—both hit new daily highs last week.    California also hit a record daily high last week, though one official attributed the spike to increased testing (Florida’s governor has also attributed his state’s spike to more testing).   Arkansas, Alabama, North Carolina, South Carolina, Utah and Alaska have also seen surging case numbers over the last week.  On Friday, the CDC released new forecasts that singled out six states—Arizona, Arkansas, Hawaii, North Carolina, Utah and Vermont—where the coronavirus death toll is likely to rise over the next month.  Some states and cities have walked back reopening measures in response to surging cases: Oregon’s governor put the reopening process on pause on Friday after the state saw its highest level of new cases since the start of the pandemic; Utah’s governor issued a similar order, as did the mayor of Nashville, Tennessee.    According to data compiled by Johns Hopkins, more than 2 million Americans have contracted Covid-19, the disease caused by the coronavirus, since the beginning of the pandemic, and more than 114,000 have died.   Key background
Even though news of states hitting record levels of coronavirus cases day after day might make it seem like the U.S. is headed for a second wave of the virus, the country is still situated very firmly within the “first wave.” New infections peaked around 36,000 cases a day in April, according to New York Times data, and over the last month the number of new daily cases has held relatively steady around 20,000. Cases in former hot spots like New York and New Jersey have fallen dramatically while cases in many areas of the South and West continue to rise. For a true “second wave” of the virus to be possible, the virus would need to subside and then reappear. Crucial quote
"We really never quite finished the first wave," Dr. Ashish Jha, a professor of global health at Harvard University, told NPR. "And it doesn't look like we are going to anytime soon."
Further reading
Some Austin Restaurants Shut Down Again After Staffers Catch Coronavirus (Forbes)
Florida Breaks Record For New Coronavirus Cases (Forbes)
Texas Shatters Record For New Coronavirus Cases (Forbes)
Dallas County Reporting New Highs In Coronavirus Cases And Deaths, Report Says (Forbes)
Full coverage and live updates on the CoronavirusGet the best of Forbes to your inbox with the latest insights from experts across the globe.Follow me on Twitter. Send me a secure tip.I'm a breaking news reporter for Forbes focusing on economic policy and capital markets. I completed my master’s degree in business and economic reporting at New York University. Before becoming a journalist, I worked as a paralegal specializing in corporate compliance.Read MoreRead LessMore from ForbesMore Articles